# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10239-10171

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-3702-464

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: TRENT, ROLAND E.

TO: LEG, MX

TITLE:

DATE: 03/13/1964

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, ASSOC, BKG, LIAISON WITH MX AUTHORITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 12/17/1998

UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS: JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Legat, Mexico (105-3702)

FROM: SA Roland E. Trent

SUBJECT: LEE HARVEY OSWALD
IS-R-Cuba

Re: Allegation of PEDRO GUTIERREZ VALENCIA

On 3-13-64, MARGARITA MUNGUIA, Visa Section, U.S. Embassy, Mexico, D.F., made available visa file data concerning ERNESTO MITRANI LEVY, holder of Cuban passport No. 26367, issued in December, 1959, with expiration date in 1964.

Addresses for this individual were given as Miguel Aleman #259, Apartment #301, Colonia Roma, Mexico, D.F., and Calle Arellano Esquina "C", #269, Havana, Cuba.

MITRANI's date of birth is shown as December 29, 1936, at Havana, Cuba, and he is further described as fair complexion, 5' 7"; 176 lbs.; Cuban national, no scars of marks, brown hair and green eyes. The visa file data also shows MITRANI to be of Turkish extraction.

MITRANI secured a one entry B-2 visa on 3-27-61 valid through 4-27-61, for the alleged purpose of a pleasure trip to Los Angeles, California.

The visa file card contains a photograph of ERNESTO MITRANI and this card indicated his employment as of January, 1961, as a merchant and manufacturer of plastics.

The application made by MITRANI as the U.S. Embassy, Mexico, D.F., in January, 1961, was for a non-immigrant visa to visit the U.S.

RET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

The following information is classified"SECRET" and not to be further disseminated without specific authority of the CIA, Mexico City Station

As of 7-6-61 onė E. MITRANI was working in the Cuban Consulate, Mexico, D.F., and had reportedly offered to cooperate with anti-Castro persons in Mexico, D.F.

The E. MITRANI, mentioned above was subsequently identified as ERNESTO MITRANI

ERNESTO MITRANI aka E. Mitrani, mentioned above, was subsequently identified as ERNESTO MITRANI LEVY, who in about December, 1959 was employed as an "Auxiliary Consular Clerk" in the Cuban Embassy, Mexico, D.F. ERNESTO MITRANI LEVY had reportedly been helpful to anti-CASTRO forces in Mexico JOSE ANTONIO PORTUONDO

On October 24, 1960, MITRANI received a telegram recalling him to Havana, Cuba; however, he did not want to return to Cuba, and reportedly went to the then Ambassador PORTUONDO, and explained that he planned on marrying a Mexican girl; that his father had offeryed him employment in Mexico, and for these reasons he did not want to return to Cuba. PORTUONDO reportedly counseled MITRANI to write to the Cuban Foreign Office in Havana and explain his problem, which ke MITRANI reportedly did. At that time MITRANI was the holder of Cuban Diplomatic passport No. 480 and also held a regular passport.

MITRANI, reportedly had arrived in Mexico on December 15, 1959; he was a batchelor at the time of his arrival, and his father was reportedly engaged in business in Mexico. His residence in about 1960 was given as residing at the corner of Avenida Insurgentes Sur and Viaducto Miguel Aleman, Mexico, D.F., telephone No. 11-96-11. The telephone and address data was as of 10-21-60

MITRANI was reportedly in contact with the USIA, U.S. Embassy, Mexico, D.F., in 1960 in regard to his desire to remain in Mexico, and MITRANI was reportedly told that a visa toenter the U.S. would be arranged for him if he would publically denounce the Cuban regime

MITRANI reportedly never publically denounced the Cuban regime although CIA file data reflects that someone wrote to the Cuban Embassy in 1960 stating that MITRANI was a "spy" and cooperating with anti-CASTRO forces

MITRANI reportedly acting as a "cut-out" sppplied one report to the CIA, Mexico City station which was submitted on or about 8-13-62.

The CIA, Mexico, City Station has no data on file concerning MITRANI since 8-13-62.

Above CIA data secured from DAVID PHILLIPS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Secret

MC File review concerning ERNESTO MITRANI revealed the following:

MC File 105-1713, Ser, 18, Pg. 3, and Ser. 19,
(Bufile 105-89084) entitled "COMMUNIST PENETRATION OF CUBAN
DIPLOMATIC ESTABLISHMENTS, FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA"
contains letterhead memorandum dated 10-24-60, which
indicates that ERNESTO MITRANI LEVI was then afr Assistant
Consul, Cuban Embassy, Mexico, D.F.classed "SECRET" from
CIA, Mexico City Station.

MC File 109-70, Ser. 850, (BUfile 109-12-210)
enttiled "FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS -CUBA". Report of SA JOSEPH
T. GENCO, 1-12-61, at Mexico, D.F., Ccontains information from
PSI FELIX VALDES (MC File 134-61254 that (FNU) MITRANI, an
assistant in the Cuban Consulate, Mexico, D.F., was contemplating
defecting and, leaving his position. As of 1-5-61, according to the
PSI, MITRANI was reportedly still working at the Cuban Consulatera

Secret.

NW 50953 DocId: 32183961 Page 4
-4-


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)