# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10291-10040

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-207-3354

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 10/22/1976

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT: OBA, AKA, ARREST, TRA, FALSE PASSPORT, SUSP, ASSA, PLOT, POLIT, CHILE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW
CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 07/07/1998

UPDATE DATE:

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS: JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Intelligence Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
STATE/INR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS NSA TREAS NSC/S SDO NIO CRS
{SY/I/PIB} SS/ID FBI/SECUR
Classified by Recorded Reporting Offices. Exempt from General Declassification Schedule of E.O. 11652 Exemption Category 5B Impossible to Determine Date of Automatic Declassification.

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT..
DECLASFIGANDINFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

* PRIORITY
  IN 077749
  PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. Except the BRACKETS
CITE TDFIR DB-315/10576-76
JM 6-25-97 SLD/KSR 7-31-97 DIST 22 OCTOBER 1976
(JFK)
REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN

NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/
CONSULTANTS Politica I matters FBI ADM. MARLINGS ONLY
COUNTRY: CHILE
DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR
ON 2-26-96
(JFK)
DOI : MID-APRIL TO MID-OCTOBER 1976
SUBJECT: CHILEAN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION ON CUBAN EXILE
LEADERS ORLANDO BOSCH AND ROLANDO OTERO
ACQ : CHILE, SANTIAGO (21 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO. HCS-10.772
SOURCE : SEE BELOW.

1. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 3-4: A MEDIUM LEVEL GOVERNMENT
   OFFICIAL WITH GOOD ACCESS TO OFFICIALS OF THE MINISTRY OF
   FOREIGN AFFAIRS. HIS REPORTING IS FAIRLY RELIABLE. (S)

2. (FIELD COMMENT: SANTIAGO EMBASSY TELEGRAM 10107 OF
   19 OCTOBER REPORTED THAT THE CHILEAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
   AFFAIRS HAD BEEN KEEPING AN EYE ON THE ACTIVITIES OF CUBANS 1976
   EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH, AND WAS NOW REVIEWING ALL
   ITS INFORMATION, PRESUMABLY IN LIGHT OF HIS RECENT ARREST IN
   VENEZUELA.)

3. ON 15 OCTOBER, FOREIGN MINISTRY OFFICIALS ASSEMBLED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

291-10040

IN 077749
TDFIRDB-315/10576-76
PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
SECRET
(classification) Ост 26 4 44 РМ 76

A FILE ON BOSCH AT THE REQUEST OF ADMIRAL PATRICIO Chile
CARVAJAL. MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS. THE FILE CONSISTS MAINLY OF EXCHANGES OF CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE CHILEAN EMBASSY IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, AND THE FOREIGN MINISTRY CONCERNING BOSCH'S ARREST IN SAN JOSE IN MARCH 1976, AND THE FACT THAT HE HAD CHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS IN HIS POSSESSION.

THE DOCUMENTS INCLUDED A BIRTH CERTIFICATE, IDENTITY CARD, TAX IDENTIFICATION CARD AND PASSPORT, ALL IN THE NAME OF RICARDO RAMON AVANZO CERUTI. THE PASSPORT WAS ISSUED IN CHILE IN 1966, AND HAD NEVER BEEN RENEWED. (SOURCE COMMENT: CHILEAN PASSPORTS NORMALLY REQUIRE RENEWAL EVERY TWO YEARS.) THE PASSPORT CONTAINED ONE CHILEAN EXIT STAMP, DATED 1966, AND NO INDICATION THAT IT HAD SUBSEQUENTLY BEEN USED TO ENTER OR EXIT CHILE. IT CONTAINED MANY EXIT AND ENTRY STAMPS. INDICATING EXTENSIVE TRAVEL BY ITS BEARER IN CENTRAL AMERICA AND PANAMA, BETWEEN 1966 AND MARCH 1976. THE PASSPORT AND OTHER DOCUMENTATION WAS SHOWN TO CHILEAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS IN SAN JOSE BY COSTA RICAN OFFICIALS: HOWEVER, THE COSTA RICANS DID NOT GIVE THE DOCUMENTS TO THE EMBASSY OFFICIALS.

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32306900 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

IN 077749
TDFIRDB-315/10576-76
PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

5. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 6-7: AN OFFICIAL CHILEAN SERVICE,

6. IN MID-APRIL 1976, THE DIRECTORATE OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE (DINA) RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT BOSCH HAD JUST ARRIVED IN CHILE WITH A CONTRACT TO ASSASSINATE A HIGH LEVEL CHILEAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL (UNIDENTIFIED). ACCORDING TO DINA, BOSCH EVADED AN ARREST ACTION ON 10 APRIL, ESCAPING BY A MATTER OF MINUTES BUT LEAVING BEHIND ALL HIS CLOTHES AND TWO PASSPORTS.

7. ON 29 APRIL, DINA, HOWEVER, SUCCESSFULLY APPREHENDED ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ, AN ASSOCIATE OF BOSCH, WHO ALONG WITH THE LATTER WAS WANTED AS A FEDERAL FUGITIVE IN THE UNITED STATES. IN EARLY MAY, DINA INFORMED THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (FBI) OF OTERO'S ARREST, AND SUBSEQUENTLY TURNED OTERO OVER TO FBI AGENTS FOR RETURN AND PROCESSING IN THE UNITED STATES, (FIELD COMMENT: HVC-7328 (TDFIRDB-315/01696-76 ) FROM AN UNTESTED SOURCE WITH ACCESS TO CUBAN EXILES REPORTED THAT OTERO WAS PLANNING TO ASSASSINATE CHILEAN MARXIST EXTREMIST ANDRES PASCAL ALLENDE, AND THAT HE WAS WORKING UNDER THE SPONSORSHIP OF THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT. DINA'S ARREST AND DEPORTATION TO THE U.S. OF

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

291-10040

IN 077749
TDFIR DB-315/10576-76

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET
(classification)
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

OTERO RAISES QUESTIONS ABOUT THE ALLEGATION OF CHILEAN
GOVERNMENT SPONSORSHIP OF OTERO AND HIS GROUP.)

8. FIELD DISSEMI EMBASSY AT SANTIAGO; SENT TO CARACAS.
   REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
   SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN
   NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/
   CONSULTANTS

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-1, 2.
ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR JCS SWS NSA SS/ID FBI TREAS
CIA/OPSCEN.


SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32306900 Page 5


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)