# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10164-10151

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-8169

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/22/1980

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: JFK, ASSA, ASSISTANCE, OPINION, SUSPECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 06/30/1997

UPDATE DATE: 02/12/2001

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS: JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS: INC FBI MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
AS BRACKET JBH 1-26-94

22 FEB 1980

MEMORANDUM FOR:
Director
U.S. Secret Service
Attention: Intelligence Division

FROM:
Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Intelligence Division

SUBJECT: Alleged Information on Assassination of President Kennedy

1. The following information was provided by our representative in Rio de Janeiro and is being forwarded for your information and such action as you deem appropriate.

a. An unidentified caller phoned the Consul General in Rio de Janeiro 29 January 1980, to offer "secret information" on the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. An Agency officer interviewed the individual on 30 January in the Consulate.

b. At first, the walk-in refused to identify himself or give the names of persons in his story, but agreed to do so after the interviewer impressed on him the importance when evaluating information of the identity of the source and of the other persons involved. The walk-in reluctantly produced an ID card (1061:51 issued by the technical police on 8/29/66) identifying himself as Laszlo KOVACS, born 30 October 1926 in Sao Paulo of Hungarian parents Gergchy and Borbalo. According to Kovacs - at age five he returned to Europe with his parents and lived in Hungary and Yugoslavia, mostly the latter, until 1961 when he returned to Brazil. He stands about five feet seven inches, stocky build, hazel eyes, no glasses, light brown hair receding at the temples and graying. His hands appear those of a mason, which he claims to be. The interview was conducted in Portuguese of which

APR 10 1980

ALL PORTIONS OF THIS DOCUMENT
ARE CLASSIFIED SECRET
CIA add to DOJ 3/5/80 phay to give to DOJ.

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32168174 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SUBJECT: Alleged Information on Assassination of President Kennedy

cause of Vlasenco's nationality, and the timing of the assassination six months after the blockade of Cuba, Kovacs concludes that the assassination was ordered by "Brezhnev and Fidel Castro."

e. Vlasenco told Kovacs in November, 1963 that he rented the apartment, dealt in precious stones, and had lived there for four years. Vlasenco was away from the apartment during the day, dressed well, had no family and no car. Kovacs guesses he saw him three times during the two week period.

f. Kovacs asked that the above story be passed to Senator Edward Kennedy, and at first refused to identify himself and the characters in his story to anyone but the Senator or his emissary because he was afraid for his life. It was for that reason also that he claims he did not come forward until now. Kovacs was assured that his story would not appear in any newspaper or magazine (which he feared would happen), but would be sent to Washington by a coded message. Towards the end of the interview Kovacs alluded to his need for money (CR $500,000 about US $11,500) to fund his inventions; one a dirigible which could carry "any amount of cargo," and one a pump which could pump liquids hundreds of miles. When asked if he had made an effort to interest local entrepreneurs, Kovacs replied that he had expended considerable effort, "but they laugh at me." Kovacs appears to have a confused thinking process and lively imagination and his story is contradictory. He probably came forward in the hope that his information would be worth money. We do not know whether he himself believes the story he related.

[^1] 2. Our representative in Rio de Janeiro has been advised to have no further contact with Kovacs. Should addees wish to pursue the matter, Kovacs' present address is Rua A. 46, Vila Luiza, Pavuna, Rio de Janeiro.

3. This Agency has no identifiable traces on Kovacs or Vlasenco.

CIR 316/00637-80


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)