124-90139-10070 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/17/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90139-10070
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 110-6-210-445

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: CIA
TITLE:
DATE: 12/11/1961
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
HERBERT LEVY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1 6
NW 50953 DocId:32337943 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

Liaison
1 - Mr. Mullins

17619

Date: December 11, 1961

To: Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject: HERBERT LEVY
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
(Nationalities Intelligence)

Enclosed is a copy of a memorandum dated November 28, 1961, at Salt Lake City, Utah, concerning Cuban economic matters. Copies of the memorandum have been furnished to the Bureau of International Programs, Department of Commerce, and to other interested agencies.

The source of the information contained in the memorandum is Mr. Herbert Levy, Director of Central Operations, St. Regis Paper Company, Bag Division, 2357 South Eighth West, Salt Lake City, Utah, telephone Hunter 6-7171. He resides at 2884 Hyland Hills Road, Salt Lake City, and his home telephone number is Hunter 4-6424.

According to Mr. Levy, he resided at Houston, Texas, approximately five years ago and was contacted there on several occasions by [a representative of your Agency]. Mr. Levy indicated he was then traveling abroad on occasions and was able to furnish [your representative] information of interest concerning [India]. He indicated he recently telephoned your headquarters in Washington, D.C., but was unable to obtain any information concerning the identity of your representative in his section of the United States. He said he had no objection to his identity being furnished to your Agency but does not desire that his identity be revealed to any other agency. He also requested that no action be taken which would reveal his identity to the business firm mentioned in the memorandum or to any other commercial firm.

We contemplate no further action in this matter.

Enclosure
Salt Lake City

tobr

SECRET

SEE NOTE FOR SAC, SALT LAKE CITY PAGE TWO

SEE NOTE ON YELLOW PAGE TWO

NW 50953 DocId:32337943 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

Director
Central Intelligence Agency

17620

NOTE FOR SAC, SALT LAKE CITY:

Reurlet 11/28/61 captioned "Large Quantities of Jute Bags and Hessian Cloth Sought by Cuban Government by Purchase or Barter Through International Ore and Fertilizer Company, New York City, New York, and Other Unknown Concerns November, 1961."

NOTE ON YELLOW:

Classified "Secret" since we refer to CIA's use of Levy abroad. He furnished information concerning possible violation of export regulations regarding shipments to Cuba by International Ore and Fertilizer Company, a large and reputable firm. Copies of memo have been furnished separately to Commerce, the military agencies and State Department. Separate letter also sent Salt Lake City concerning proper caption for reporting similar data.

SECRET

- 2 -


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)