2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90092-10002
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-68227-649

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: NY
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 03/15/1965
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: OXTANK
WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: RPT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FD-102 (Rev. 10-11-63)

DERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAT

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
CLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
EASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS
P.D.E 1. KP 1-22-98

Date
ROBERT GLENN THOMPSON
ESP - R
12/4/64

SLD/KSR
4-14-98 (JFK) ROBERT G. THOMPSON, 1693 North Gardiner Drive,
Bay Shore, Long Island, New York, was interviewed on
December 2, 1964. At the outset of the interview
THOMPSON was advised by SA PAUL BOYCE TOMPKINS that
he was not under arrest, that his meeting with the
Special Agents was strictly voluntary, and that he
could leave at any time he wished to do so. THOMPSON
was also advised that he had a right to say nothing
at all, and that anything he did say might be used in
a court of law against him. He was also advised that if
he did say anything about a crime he had a right at
any time to talk to a lawyer of his own choice or anyone
else with whom he might wish to speak before saying
anything.

The interviewing agents advised THOMPSON that
they had in their possession a list of Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA) male personnel who were assigned to the Berlin
Base of that agency during the period that THOMPSON was
assigned to OSI, Berlin. The names on this list were then
read off to THOMPSON, at which time he was asked to comment
on any names that he recognized.

THOMPSON made the following comments concerning
the individuals listed below, whose surnames he recognized.

ROBERT A. ACKERMANN (5)

THOMPSON stated he recalled an individual named
ACKERMANN who had some connection with Army Intelligence
Or CIA in Berlin while THOMPSON was with OSI, Berlin. He
could recall nothing further regarding this individual nor
could he recall if he furnished any information about
ACKERMANN to STEVEN.

12/2/64 Bay Shore, LI, NY 65-22427
On at File #

SAS PAUL BOYCECTOMEXINS &
GEORGE W. O'CONNOR:emv 12/4/64
by Date dictated

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 50953 DocId:32330757 Page 2

Cover Page


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

3. 
NY 65-22427

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

THOMPSON stated that he recalled an individual by the name of HARVEY whom he believes was an officer with the 7983rd Army Unit, which THOMPSON stated was a covert CIA outfit, or was an officer with an Army Intelligence Unit in Berlin. THOMPSON believed that this individual had the rank of Captain or Major, and that he was an administrative or liaison officer. THOMPSON stated that STEVEN, his Soviet principal, asked him about this individual and THOMPSON told STEVEN whatever he knew about this individual. THOMPSON advised that he thinks he, THOMPSON, might have met this individual on one occasion.

CLARK JUNG

THOMPSON advised that he recalled an individual having the last name JUNG who was a civilian employee of the 7983rd Army Unit THOMPSON recalled a great meny details about this individual, including the fact that he was a civilian employee of CIA in Grade GS-9 or 10. THOMPSON believed that this individual was an "agent handler" and furthermore, that he had some connection with photography. THOMPSON stated that this individual may have been a "counterfeiter of documents" or he may have been a "bug" on photography

THOMPSON also recalled that this individual lived on Argentinische Allee or Onkel Toms Strasse in Berlin, Dahlem.

THOMPSON also recalled that the individual whose last name he believes was JUNG had some sort of an association with two German nationals, whose release from jail in Germany, United States Intelligence had obtained in order that their talents might be utilized by the 7983rd Army Unit THOMPSON stated that one of these individuals was a counterfeiter and that the other individual was a safe-cracker. STEVEN told him this


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)