# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90139-10138

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-4315

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 05/10/1965

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32338011 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

#4.

1 - Newpher

1 COPIES MADE 4/26/78.BY
LJC RE PAPICA
FOR REVIEW AT FOIKO AND/OR DELIVERY
TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED
(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT
KP 5-26-98 BRACKETS

A highly confidential informant who has furnished reliable information in the past recently advised that on about February 20, 1963, Raul Roa, Cuban Foreign Minister, commented that the Sino - Indian conflict continually bothers Cuba and this conflict worked in the favor of the United States in the Fall of 1962.

Roa's evaluation of the situation in Cuba was highly pessimistic. Roa stated that the situation has deteriorated; that this was the only thing that could have happened because talks at the United Nations, New York, did not find an answer to the problem. Roa also observed that conditions as of February, 1963, were similar to those just before the crisis in the Fall of 1962, mentioning pirate boat activities, a campaign in the United States and a statement by President Kennedy which Roa described as meaningless.

Roa commented that the United States was the only nation which benefited from the crisis. The informant understood that it was Roa's contention that by excluding the Security Council of the United Nations from considering the Cuban situation and permitting the Organization of American States (OAS) to take up the matter freely, the United States is now enjoying a very favorable position in the OAS, the best it has enjoyed at any time in the Organization. In still referring to what the informant believed was the OAS, Roa said that the report of the Antisubversive Committee, now under study by the OAS, contains some definite proposals, such as a collective breakoff and a breakoff in relations with Cuba including postal contacts. Roa said it is known officially that Mexico will accept such resolutions with reservations; Bolivia, Chile and Uruguay will accept everything; and it is believed that only Brazil will oppose such resolutions. Cuba, according to Roa, believes thať talks between President Kennedy and President Romulo Betancourt, Venezuela, will establish the action by the OAS.

JON: rmc
(7)
109-12-210

SECRET

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

4315

1101644 (PRIME) eclassification

To CIA State by liaison 3/10/69

17 MAY 13 1963

MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

NW 50953 DocId: 32338011 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

## FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

Roa also commented that it would have been much better if the Cuban situation had been handled by the United Nations Security Council. Among other things, this would have limited the ability of the OAS. When it was suggested that time was working in Cuba's favor, Roa agreed, saying it permitted internal consolidation, and economic and organizational endeavors. He also mentioned the differences within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the hope for settlement of differences in the Soviet Bloc and prospects for general relaxing of strained relations between all countries.

Although Roa did not mention the Soviet Union at any time, it appeared that he does not now agree with the Soviet Union's placing missiles in Cuba in 1962. Roa's comments during the entire conversation left one with the feeling that he was pessimistic, according to the informant.

NOTE:

Classified "*Top Secret*" because unauthorized disclosure would reveal a high-level intelligence operation involving PRIME our (5) extremely sensitive source at the Polish UN Delegations,

PROPERTY OF THE FBI

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

SECRET

- 2 -


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)