# ATTENDEES

USIB AD HOC COORDINATING GROUP
ON CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW

Wednesday, 4 June 1975, at 1000 hours
DCI Conference Room (7D64)

Dr. John M. Clarke
AD/DCI/IC

Lt. Col. Harold Coyle
Rep. for Deputy Under
Secretary of the Air Force

Mr. J. J. Hitchcock
State

Mr. Walter Elder STAT
CIA

Mr. David Lowman STAT
NSA

Mrs. Harriett D. Mowitt
Exec Sec to the Ad Hoc Group
ICS

Mr. J. Foster Collins
Treasury

Mr. Donald E. Moore
Chairman, USIB Security
Committee

Mr. Leon F. Schwartz
FBI

Mr. Robert Upchurch
ERDA

Mr. Merrill T. Kelly
Army

RADM Donald P. Harvey, USN
Mr. John Brock STAT
Captain William Quisenberry
DIA

Colonel Jerry D. Alderson, Jr,
Air Force

Captain L. C. Martinez
Navy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

4. In addition to the "category II" items, there are a number of additional subjects largely geographic in nature for which the DCI feels CIA should assume responsibility for preparing comprehensive papers. In view of the apparent adversary relationship between the Senate Select Committee Staff and the agencies under investigation, it may be that preparation of papers dealing comprehensively with specific subjects will deflect some of this cross-agency probing and result in a positive solution to problems before they arise.

5. The Chairman reminded the group of the responsibility which exists to keep Mr. Cotter of the Post Office Department informed on matters resulting from the Congressional investiga- tions which will clearly impact on his agency's affairs. At present, the cross-agency character of the interviews now under way indicate a possible communication gap in adequately coordinating on postal matters.

6. The Chairman explained the DCI's action taken in late May to separate the responsibility for CIA's response to the Congressional Select Committees from those responsibilities of the IC Staff. [Both Dr. Clarke and Mr: Elder emphasized the very close relationship which exists in the two efforts. Mr. Elder will represent CIA at all USIB Ad Hoc sessions henceforth.]

7. The Chairman questioned Mr. Elder, the CIA repre- sentative whether or not the Senate Select Committee had yet furnished the Agency with a list of subjects with which they plan to deal in depth. Mr. Elder reported they have not yet done so, but it is apparent that three items are of priority interest at the moment: assassinations, the Phoenix program, and covert action; that it appears clear the Committee is currently pursuing the question of authorities, approvals, and support from other agencies.

8. The 27 May request addressed to the DCI covering materials under the jurisdiction of a number of Community agencies was provided to the members of the Ad Hoc Group. [Dr. Clarke indicated he was seeking policy guidance on selected items in the request which dealt with Community product such as NIE etc.] He noted the 27 May request indicated identical: letters were being forwarded to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense. Copies have been sent to all USIB Ad Hoc members, the NSC and the White House.

2

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CONFIDENTIAL

9. Copies of a memorandum which set forth the action items resulting from the Policy Steering Group session of last week were provided to the Ad Hoc members for their information.

10. Mr. Elder reported that the House Committee has indicated to CIA its intent to concentrate on specific issues, but as of now are not adequately organized to be specific in their requests. The one extant request forwarded to the CIA was posing some problems because of the lack of cleared personnel, approved storage facilities, and determinations on the ultimate disposition of records. The Chairman noted that concurrent with this meeting, a meeting of Community legal representatives was taking place with the purpose of commenting on the House Select Committee's proposed security regulations which have not yet been adopted.

11. [CIA reported its success with the provision of a reading room for SSC Staff at CIA headquarters.] State reported there were no comparable facilities anticipated there. Defense has provided badges to Staff members and reading facilities are available. The same accessability of materials is true at NSA and FBI.

12. The last subject on the agenda was the implementation of the Community Central Index. In the material provided to the group was a letter reaffirming the purposes of the Central Index and a list of 40 key words to be used in identifying material furnished the Index. A printout of the Index content was provided to the group as a review document only. The final format of such periodic reports has not yet been refined. Group members are encouraged to comment if they detect any problems with items in the printout. Forms for inputting information to the Central Index were also provided to the Group. This is a service of common concern which will assure the uniformity of information received and should serve to lighten the workload of the individual agencies. The telephone number of Mrs. Young of the Central Index was provided for agencies' convenience in accessing the Index information.

![signature of Harriett D. Mowitt]

Harriett D. Mowitt
Executive Secretary

Attachment: as stated


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Intelligence Community Staff

# THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20505

DCI/IC-75-0116
6 June 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: See Distribution

1.  The following list includes subjects to be covered by the Agencies concerned:

Assassinations White House Mr. Wilderotter
IDS 145-7094

Drug Abuse CIA. Not yet designated

Political Abuses FBI John Thomas
(1964) 324-4609

Domestic Justice John Martin
Surveillance IDS 187-4555

Electronic Justice George Calhoun
Surveillance and IDS 187-4401
Warrantless Wiretap

Use of Notional FBI John Thomas
Organizations 324-4609

Use of Proprietary CIA Not yet designated
Organizations

Mail Cover and Justice Phil White
Intercept IDS 187-4674

Watch List DOD Benson Buffham, NSA
688-7222

Army Surveillance DOD Dr. David Cooke
695-4436


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

The individuals named on this list are those designated by the Agencies as having prime responsibility for preparing the paper. The papers should be delivered in two copies directly to the Associate Counsel to the President, Mr. James Wilderotter, Room 182, Old Executive Office Building, by the Agencies. In the course of the next week, a meeting will be called for Mr. Wilderotter to meet with the individuals designated on this list. Each Agency will also be responsible for naming a person to work with each Task Force leader where it is appropriate to the subject matter. In the interim, Task Force leaders should deal directly with the following people with respect to individual Agency responsibilities:

DCI/Intelligence Community

CIA

Defense

State

Treasury

Justice

FBI.

John Clarke
IDS 143-5477

E. Henry Knoche
IDS 143-4086.

Tom Latimer
IDS 11-54221

William Hyland
IDS 101-20342

William Morell
IDS 184-2536

William O'Connor
IDS 187-5211

William_Cregar
IDS 175-4636

2. The CIA has been coordinating internally the DCI's letter to the Chairman of the House Select Committee on Intelligence and this letter should be available for Community review and consideration soon.. Distribution of this letter will be made sometime prior to a meeting of the General Counsels chaired by Mr. Wilderotter to go over details of the letter and coordinate on the final language. This arrangement is consistent with.agreements reached in our meeting on 3 June 1975.

cc: Mr. Buchen

John M. Clarke
Associate Deputy to the DCI
for the Intelligence Community


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

## Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. R. Wannally

FROM: W. Weregar

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

DATE: 6/6/75

This records the results of contact with Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) concerning release to Senate Select Committee (SSC) of two documents pertaining to Appendix C, Paragraph 24 of the SSC request to the Department of 5/14/75, which requested "all memoranda and other materials reflecting conversations, contacts or 'communications between the FBI and the CIA on the subject of the establishment or creation of 'notional' Marxist-Leninist organizations withinthe United States."

No information has been developed indicating this Bureau conferred with CIA regarding the establishment or creation of a Bureau-sponsored "notional" Marxist-Leninist organization. Although the FBI did, in fact, direct several such organizations, no information has been developed indicating the FBI consulted with CIA regarding their establishment or creation.

In one instance, CIA advised in 2/70 it had established a notional organization with post office box addresses in Boston Massachusetts and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. This notional organization, to be known as the Union for the Revolution, had the objective of developing penetrations and/or sources in revolutionary Arab groups in the Middle East. It was CIA'S intention to circulate propaganda from the post office boxes in anticipation of interesting Arab groups. Thereafter, it was CIA's plan to use its personnel under "suitable" cover to contact the Arab groups. (See memorandum dated 2/13/70, captioned "Union for the Revolution," 100-456409-2, copy attached.)

By letterhead memorandum dated 3/23/70, the FBI indicated information had been received indicating the Union for the Revolution had been in contact with a domestic Marxist-Leninist organization requesting literature. This memorandum set forth an analysis of a "Statement of the Union for the Revolution" indicating the document lacked credibility as a revolutionary document. (LHM dated 3/23/70, captioned "Union for the Revolution," 100-456409-4, copy attached.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

On 6/6/75, Mr. Walter Elder, CIA, advised that CIA
had no objection to the LHM dated 3/23/70, being furnished to
the SSC. With regard to the memorandum from Mr. Papich to
Mr. Brennan dated 2/13/70, Mr. Elder requested that the name
of the CIA representative who furnished the information in the
memorandum be deleted from line one of the memorandum prior to
its being furnished to the SSC. Provided this is done, CIA has
no objection to this memorandum being furnished to the SSC.
He suggested that when the name is deleted, it be replaced with
the phrase "A CIA officer."

ACTION:

To record CIA's clearance of the above-described
documents.

- 2 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

Appendix C, ле, 24

Please provide: all memoranda and other materials reflecting conversations, contacts, or communications between the FBI and the CIA on the subject of the establishment or creation of "notional" Marxist-Leninist organizations within the United States.

No information has been developed indicating this Bureau conferred with CIA regarding the establishment or creation of a Bureau-sponsored "notional" Marxist-Leninist organization. Although the FBI did, in fact, direct several such organizations, no information has been developed indicating the FBI consulted with CIA regarding their establishment or creation.

In one instance, CIA advised in 2/70 it had established a notional organization with post office box_addresses in Boston, Massachusetts, and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. This notional organization, to be known as the Union for the Revolution, had the objective of developing penetrations and/or sources in revolutionary Arab groups in the Middle East.. It was CIA's intention to circulate propaganda from the post office boxes in anticipation of interesting Arab groups. Thereafter, it was CIA's plan to use its personnel under "suitable" cover to contact the Arab groups. (See memorandum dated 2/13/70 captioned "Union for the Revolution, "100-456409-2, copy attached.)-

By letterhead memorandum dated 3/23/70, the FBI indicated information had been received indicating the Union for the Revolution had been in contact with a domestic Marxist-Leninist organization requesting literature. This memorandum set forth an analysis of a "Statement of the Union for the Revolution" indicating the document lacked credibility as a revolutionary document. (LHM dated 3/23/70 captioned "Union for the Revolution, " 100-456409-4, copy attached.)

As the Union for the Revolution was strictly a creation of CIA, it is recommended before any information be disseminated outside the FBI relating to this organization, clearance be obtained through CIA.

SECRET

Classified by 437

Exempt from GDS, Category 2&3

Date of Declassification Indefinite

Prepared by SA David Ryan, IS-3, 5/28/75

ENGLUSUN 62-116395-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Memorandum to Mr. Adams
Re: Senate Select Committee

reason and for the reason that the Director desired to be cooperative with the Committee, we would request a meeting with Senator Church and Senator Tower to arrive at an understanding as to procedures. I told Mr. O'Connor that I would consider such a letter and he said he would discuss the matter with the Deputy Attorney General and with James Wilderotter at the White House.

At approximately 9:05 a.m. on May 23, 1975, Mr. O'Connor called me and said that he had discussed the matter with Mr. Wilderotter and the Deputy Attorney General. He said that both had agreed that it was inopportune at this time to seek special guidelines for interviews of FBI personnel and former personnel with the Committee. He said that a meeting has been scheduled for Tuesday, May 27, 1975, at noon in a final effort to resolve an understanding with Committee representatives. He said at the present time it is proposed that the meeting be attended by Wilderotter and Roderick Hills, representing the White House; Hoffman, representing the Defense Department; (Warner, representing CIA) and O'Connor representing the Justice Department. Committee representatives would be Schwarz, Chief Counsel, and John Elliff. He said that at this time it was his thought that the Deputy Attorney General and I should not attend the meeting. He gave as his reasoning the thought that "should something go wrong" the Deputy Attorney General could disassociate himself from any agreement arrived at, and that I would similarly be in a position of saying that we have not been a party to the agreement.

I reminded Mr. O'Connor that meetings have been held frequently in the past and that tentative understandings made at such meetings have dis- appeared shortly after the meeting was concluded. I told him that was significant to us because we now understand that two more former employees of the FBI have been contacted and may be interviewed in the near future. I told him that former SA Sam Papich and former Agent Nichols have been contacted. I told him that the extent to which we should release these two former employees from their obligation of secrecy could not be intelligently evaluated unless we knew the subject matter of the interviews and that we plan to contact the Committee to inquire as to the subject matter. I pointed out to him that such pending interviews make it imperative for the FBI to consider action in addition to meetings that may be planned to discuss guidelines.

- 4 - CONTINUED OVER

![JFK(IXA)]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

## Memorandum

TO : Mr. W.R. Wannk

FROM: H.C. Flemister, Jr.

SUBJECT: MORTON HALPERIN-
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT (FOIA) REQUEST

1 - Mr. Adams

1 - Mr. Jenkins

1 - Mr. McDermott

1 - Mr. Mintz

DATE: 5/7/75

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. J.C. Farrington

1 - Mr. Cregar

1 - Mr. Flemister

1 - Mr. Schwartz

This memorandum sets forth results of Liaison contact with Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) concerning Halperin's request to be provided with a copy of a 1948 memorandum of understanding between the FBI and the CIA. Halperin has made this request of both CIA and the Bureau.

On 4/30/75 Mr. James Garrison, CIA, advised that after considerable research in CIA files, the following documents (copies attached) were located which pertain to Halperin's request. Copies have also been located in Bufiles:

(1) Memorandum for the Record dated 9/22/48 entitled "Cooperation and Liaison Between Federal Bureau of Investigation and Office of Policy Coordination, CIA," which was prepared by CIA and originally classified Top Secret. This document has recently been downgraded by CIA to a classification of Secret.

(2) Letter dated 9/22/48 from Frank G. Wisner, Assistant Director for Policy Coordination, CIA, to Mr. D. Milton Ladd, Assistant to the Director, FBI, which forwarded as an enclosure the 9/22/48 memorandum described above. This item was also originally classified Top Secret but has been downgraded by CIA to Secret.

(3) Letter dated 10/2/48 from Wisner which acknowledges that the arrangement set forth in the memorandum of 9/22/48 is satisfactory to the Bureau. This item was not classified in accordance with current classification standards but bears the marking "Personal and Confidential."

Enclosures - 3
LFS:tdp (10)

CONTINUED - OVER

84 JUL 1 1975


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECRET

## DRAFT

22 September 1948

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: Cooperation and Liaison Between Federal Bureau of Investigation and Office of Policy Coordination, CIA

1. This memorandum records an understanding which has been arrived at in conversations between Mr. D. Milton Ladd, Assistant to the Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Mr. Frank G. Wisner, Assistant Director, and Chief of the Office of Policy Coordination, of CIA. The conversations in question were duly authorized by the Associate Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and by the Director and Deputy Director of CIA and were arranged by the Executive Secretary of the National Security Council on behalf of the White House. The purpose of the understanding is to provide a basis for cooperation and liaison between the FBI and the Office of Policy Coordination, CIA, and the following points. summarize the essential elements of the understanding:

a. In view of the distinctive character of the activities of the Office of Policy Coordination, it is considered advisable that separate and direct liaison be established between that office and the FBI. For this purpose the FBI will provide a special liaison officer who will be nominated by the FBI within the near future. (This arrangement has been specifically approved by the Deputy Director, CIA, in the absence of the Director)

b. It is understood that in the discharge of the duties and obligations laid upon the Office of Policy Coorination by the National Security Council, it is necessary for this Office to have dealings with individuals and groups of foreign nationalities within and without the United States and to sponsor the movement from time to time of such individuals and representatives of such groups between the United States and foreign countries. The Office of Policy Coordination recognizes the primary responsibility of the FBI in the field of United States domestic security, and the FBI acknowledges that it is essential for the Office of Policy Coordination to have direct dealings with the individuals and groups afore-mentiorad.

c. In order that the interests of both parties to this understanding shall be served, it is understood that the Office of Policy Coordination keep the FBI generally informed concerning the extent end character of its dealings with

![signature Paul J. Burns]

Downgraded to SECRET per
aul J. Burns 019310

![signature JPKCL(I)A]

ENCLOSURE

ENCLOSURE

62-116395-

SECRET

COPY 1 OF 1 COPIES

![HISTORICAL DOCUMENT Destroy only with consent of the archivist of NSA]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# SECRET

22 September 1948

Mr. D. Milton Ladd
Assistant to the Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Mr. Ladd:

Confirming our telephone conversation of today, I am enclosing a draft of a proposed memorandum which I have prepared for the purpose of recording the understanding which has been arrived at between us in regard to the cooperation and liaison between my office and the Bureau. I have endeavored in this draft to set out the essential features of our conversation of yesterday afternoon and I should appreciate your indicating to me any modifications or changes which you may deem necessary or advisable to reflect your recollection and understanding of our conversation. Upon my receipt of your suggested changes, if any, and following any further discussion between us which may be indicated as desirable, I shall prepare this memorandum in final form and furnish to you the original and a copy thereof, with the request that you initial and return to me the copy.

In. accordance with the terms of our understanding, I should like to submit to you herewith the names of certain of the individuals and groups with whom it is proposed that my office will have dealings in connection with our authorized activities. From time to time in the future I shall furnish you with additional names. The following are the names:

I - Individuals:

George M. Dimitrov, Exiled Secretary General of Bulgarian Agrarian Party

Stefan Osusky, prominent Czech Refugee leader

Ferenc Nagy, head cf Hungarian Small Holders Party

Dr. Vladko Macek, representative of Croatian Peasant Party

Stanislas Mikolajczyk, former Polish Vice Premier

Andre Cretzianu, i'ormer Rumanian Cabinet Minister.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

[SECRET]

foreign individuals and groups within the United States. More specifically the Office of Policy Coordination will, in so far as possible, inform the FBI sufficiently in advance of its proposed dealings with such individuals and groups to enable the FBI to advise the Office of Policy Coordination of any security risks which may be involved in dealing with such individuals and groups and in order to provide the FBI with adequate opportunity to indicate individuals which it is employing for its own purposes in connection with the penetration of foreign groups.

d. There shall be an exchange of information between the FBI and the Office of Policy Coordination concerning the significance, activities, and reliability of such individuals and groups of foreign nationalities within the United States as may be of interest to the Office of Policy Coordination.

F. G. W.

D. M. Lo


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# EYES ALONE

THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20505

30 MAY 1975

Intelligence Community Staff
DCI/IC-75-0597

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Thomas-K- Latimer, Department of Defense
Mr. William G. Hyland, Department of State
Mr. E. H. Knoche, Central Intelligence Agency
Mr. William O. Cregar, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Mr. William N. Morell, Jr., Department of Treasury
Mr. James G. Poor, Energy Research & Development Administration
Mr. William Nichols, Office of Management and Budget
Mr. John B. Hotis, Department of Justice

SUBJECT : Future Legislation Relative.to U.S. Intelligence

Following up on the discussion at yesterday's meeting of the Policy Steering Group, addressees are encouraged to provide to the White House specific suggestions for administrative or legislative action relative to U.S. intelligence programs. Such proposals should be realistic and doable in the near term. Please provide two copies of all suggestions to James Wilderotter, Room 182, Old Executive Office Building by 10 June 1975.

![photo of a stamp that says ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED]

Harriett D. Mowitt
Executive Secretary
USIB Ad Hoc Coordinatingroup

17 JUN 4 1975

![photo of a handwritten note that says file in 62-116395]

84 JUN 4 1975

EYES ALONE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)