# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 6/8/2015

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10171

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-83720-1

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BARRON, JOHN R.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/31/1959

PAGES: 18

SUBJECTS: EPE, INTV, ARVIER, MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL, AKA, EMP, RES, ASSOC, POLIT, INTEL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF INS, CIA

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO INS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE: MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN: MIAMI

DATE: 12/31/59

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD: 10/9 - 12/28/59

TITLE OF CASE

MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER, aka Maria Mendizabal, "Nene" Mendizabal

REPORT MADE BY: JOHN R. BARRON

CHARACTER OF CASE

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

REFERENCES: Butel to Miami, October 9, 1959. 7-9452-13
Miami letter to Director, November 4, 1959. 7-9452-14
Miami report of SA JOHN R. BARRON, November 23, 1959, captioned: UNSUBS; MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ - VICTIM,
KIDNAPPING - CONSPIRACY (Bufile 7-9452).

REQUEST OF BUREAU

The Bureau is requested to refer instant matter to the Department for decision regarding the subject's activities while employed as a secretary to ex-Venezuelan president MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ and regarding her admission that/she furnished information to ALBERTO BAYO, JR., described in instant report, concerning information obtained during her employment. There exists a possible violation of the Registration Act, over which this Bureau has jurisdiction.

![photo of handwritten notes and approvals]

NW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MM 97-300

SECRED

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will report the decision rendered by the Department.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information copies have been furnished the New York Office, inasmuch as the subject of this investigation was formerly employed as a secretary to ex-Venezuelan president MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, whom the New York Office is currently investigating.

This investigation is being placed in a pending inactive status, pending departmental decision concerning the subject's activities while she was employed as a secretary to ex-Venezuelan president MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ.

The Bureau is advised that investigation appearing in this report conducted prior to October 9, 1959, was made concerning the subject inasmuch as she was suspected of plotting against MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ to arrange his abduction, the details of which have been reported in reference Miami report dated November 23, 1959 (Bufile 7-9452).

MM T-2, utilized in the details of this report was interviewed by Special Agents JOHN R. BARRON and WILLIAM B. HOLLOMAN, at which time she identified herself as [a] CIA informant in Havana[^5] [and stated that she was employed as a secretary to][^6] ALBERTO BAYO, JR.

The Bureau is advised that all informants familiar with Latin American activities were contacted, and no information was received indicating that the subject was active in Cuban intelligence activities.

B.

- COVER PAGE -

SECRET

[^5]
[^6]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MM 97-300

SECRET

The interviews appearing in this report with MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, Dr. CARLOS SISO, and the subject, appear on SF 64s and FD 302s in original form in Miami case file 7-475, captioned: "UNSUBS; MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ - VICTIM; KIDNAPPING - CONSPIRACY (Bufile 7-9452).

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY

MM T-1 is [CIA, Havana,][^4]
information contained
in Butel to Miami dated
October 9, 1959

MM T-2 is ANA ROSA GUERRA[^5] ([admitted] CIA informant in Havana, who works in the office of ALBERTO BAYO, JR., Director, Air Fumigation, Havana)[^5]

MM T-3 is JANET SUMMERS,
District Manager's Clerk,
Southern Bell Telephone
and Telegraph Company,
Miami Beach, Florida
(nature of information)

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL
INFORMATION

7-475-9

Instant report, page 7.

Instant report, page 12.

Careful consideration has been given to each source concealed in this report, and they were concealed only in those instances where identities must be concealed.

C*
- COVER PAGE -

SECRET

NW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSCE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to: 1 - INS, New York (RM)

Report of: SA JOHN R. BARRON
Date: December 31, 1959

Field Office File #: 97-300

Title: MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER

SECRED

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. BRACKETS
EXCEPT FOR Bureau File #: 7-9452 109-283
pg. 7 Jm 6-25-97
SLD/KSR
8-1-97
(JFR)ALL
Miami

Character: INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA
REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

Synopsis: Subject, MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER, born November 26, 1916 in Cuba; Immigration and Naturalization Service Alien Registration No. A-11039008. While employed in Miami Beach, Florida as secretary to MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ, ex-Venezuelan president, reported by MM T-1 to be plant and furnishing information to ALBERTO BAYO, JR. regarding the activities of PEREZ JIMENEZ. MM T-1 described BAYO as being active in intelligence matters for the Cuban govern-ment. Subject interviewed and admitted association with BAYO.

DETAILS:

This investigation is predicated on information furnished by MM T-1, a United States government agency which conducts intelligence investigations, which advised on October 9, 1959 that the subject, "Nene" MENDIZABAL, was in contact with ALBERTO BAYO, JR., described by MM T-1 as being engaged in intelligence activity for the Cuban government.

SUBJECT'S IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION STATUS

On October 9 and 30, 1959, the files of the District Office, Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), New York City, were caused to be reviewed by SA WILLIAM D. MEEHAN and reflected that on November 2, 1956, one MARIA MENDIZABAL, A11-039-008, date of birth November 26, 1916, in Havana, Cuba, filed an "Application for Immigration Visa and Alien Registration" at the

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outalide your agency.

SECRET
NW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

MM 97-300

SECRET

American Embassy, Havana, Cuba.

In this application MARIA MENDIZABAL furnished her place of birth as Cleba del Agua, Havana, Cuba, and claimed that she was known by no other names. Her occupation was furnished as that of office clerk, and her last permanent address as "Avenue 19 Number 8203, e/84, Marianao, Havana, Cuba". Her destination and address in the United States were furnished care of the Latina Shipping Company, Limited, lll Wall Street, New York City, but this was crossed through in ink, and the address 321 East 43rd Street, New York 17, New York, was marked in. She possessed Cuban Passport Number 21566, issued September 20, 1955, by the Cuban Ministry of State at Havana, Cuba, valid until September 20, 1957. She was described as follows:

|                |                                                                                                       |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Race           | White (Cuban)                                                                                         |
| Sex            | Female                                                                                                |
| Height         | 5 feet 5 inches                                                                                       |
| Weight         | 120 pounds                                                                                            |
| Hair           | Brown                                                                                                 |
| Eyes           | Brown                                                                                                 |
| Complexion     | Fair                                                                                                  |
| Marital Status | Divorced                                                                                              |
| Minor children | Sons - PEDRO FERNANDO FERNANDEZ Y MENDIZABAL, NELSON JOSE FERNANDEZ Y MENDIZABAL (ages not furnished) |

She claimed further in this application that she had previously applied for and was granted visas to enter the United States during 1952 and 1956, but the dates of her previous sojourns to the United States were not furnished.

MARIA MENDIZABAL submitted in support of this application a copy of her Certificate of Birth, Petition for Divorce, and a document attesting that she had no arrest record in Cuba, all of which were

- 2 -

SECRET

NW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

MM 97-300

in the Spanish language.

SECRET

Her file also contained an affidavit submitted by one EDUARDO MX GONZALEZ, 45 Fifth Avenue, New York City, an American citizen, who was born in Havana, Cuba. It was set out that GONZALEZ was the President and sole owner of the Latina Shipping Company, lll Wall Street, New York City, and was desirous of bringing MENDIZABAL to the United States to work for the above company. The degree of relationship existing between GONZALEZ and MENDIZABAL was not set forth.

MARIA MENDIZABAL was granted an 0-1 Visa, Number 5686, and arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida, on February 20, 1957. This was the only arrival or departure contained in the INS, New York records.

A search of the Alien Address Report Cards maintained at INS, New York, failed to reflect any record of MENDIZABAL for the years of 1958, and 1959.

RESULTS OF INVESTIGATION

MM T-1, on October 9, 1959, advised that MARIA MENDIZABAL, also known as "Nene" MENDIZABAL, employed as a secretary of ex-Venezuelan president MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ at Miami Beach, Florida, attempted to contact ALBERTO REVUELTA in Havana, at Havana telephone: 29-5233, on October 9, 1959. MM T-1 advised that ALBERTO REVUELTA is identical with ALBERTO BAYO, JR, who, according to MM T-1, is engaged in Intelligence activities for the Cuban government. MM T-1 believed that the subject was a plant and was furnishing information to BAYO, JR. regarding the activities of PEREZ JIMENEZ.

Prior to receipt of the above information as furnished by MM T-1 on October 9, 1959, the following

- 3 -

SECRET

NW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

MM 97-300

MM T-2, on October 24, 1959 advised that ALBERTO BAYO, JR., director of Air Fumigation, Marianao, Havana, Cuba, revealed in early August, 1959 that "Nene"(5) MENDIZABAL, subsequently identified as MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER, was sent on a delicate mission to Miami, and that in fifteen days, there would be an announcement in the press about PEREZ JIMENEZ. MM T-2 advised that he observed the subject in the office of ALBERTO BAYO, JR. on three occasions](5)

The following information was obtained in connection with investigation concerning another matter:

On October 29, 1959, MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER was interviewed at Miami, Florida, by Special Agents CHARLES W. EDMISTON and JOHN R. BARRON.

MARIA JOSEFA MENDIZABAL ARVIER, 1951 Park Avenue, Apartment 11, Miami Beach, Florida, after being advised of her right to be represented by counsel, that anything she might say could be used against her in a court of law, stated that she was born on November 26, 1916, at Havana, Cuba.

MENDIZABAL stated that she arrived in the United States on August 15, 1959, aboard Cubana Airlines, which departed Havana, Cuba, at approximately 5:30 p.m. on August 15, 1959. She stated that upon her arrival at the Miami International Airport, she was met by Dr. CARLOS SISO and INES DAVILA, as well as a friend of Dr. SISO, introduced to her as CARLOS PULIDO. ELA.

MENDIZABAL advised that prior to her arrival in Miami, she had received a letter from INES DAVILA in the early part of August, 1959, wherein DAVILA advised her that PEREZ JIMENEZ, ex-Venezuelan President, was seeking the services of a reliable and competent secretary. She stated DAVILA in her letter to her asked if she would be interested in this position to which she subsequently replied that she would accept the position as secretary to PEREZ JIMENEZ, as she was heavily in debt in Cuba.

- 7 -

NW 52333 DocId:32303659 Page 8


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)