124-10300-10012 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 6/5/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10300-10012
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-147458-52

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 07/14/1967
PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS: MR, LORIE, JORGE RAUL ROBLEJO, RES, POLIT ACT, TRA,
 ASSOC, POLIT PRISONERS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IB; 1C; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32309646 Page 1
6

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO FBI
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION Date: 7-14-67

SECRET

Transmit the following IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS ON
Via AIRTEL CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/GCL REGISTERED MAIL
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X(1)(6) (Priority)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-147458)
FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105-9977) (P) Declassify on: OADR
SUBJECT: COMITE PRO-LIBERACION DE LOS CIEN
(CPLLC - COMMITTEE FOR THE LIBERATION
OF THE ONE HUNDRED)
IS - CUBA

Re Miami airtels 7-10-67, captioned "JORGE
RAUL ROBLEJO LORIE, IS - CUBA" and "SERGIO OSWALDO
BETANCOURT COLLAZO, aka - PSI, IS - CUBA".

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 14 copies
of a LHM dated and captioned as above. Extra copies
of this LHM are being furnished for transmittal to
Legats, Ottawa (2) and Mexico City (1).

It is to be noted limited dissemination has
been made concerning this matter and the enclosed LHM
due to the sensitivity of the information concerning the

Bureau (Enc 14) (RM)
(1-Legat, Mexico City 105-4967)
(1-Legat Ottawa 105-3083)
1-New York (info) (105-77103) (Enc. 1) (RM)
1-San Juan (info) (105-9215) (Enc. 1) (RM)
1-Washington Field (info) (105-69372) (Enc. 1) (RM)
3-Miami
(1-105-9977)
(1-105-12062) (Roblejo)
(1-134-1433-Sub-A) for review at FEINO by.]

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32309646 Page 2

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

MM 105-9977

possibility of ROBLEJO being involved in possible intelligence activities.

The FBI does not actually utilize Building T90 or T94 to conduct interviews of Cuban refugees. However, CIA under the guise of U. S. Immigration and Naturalization Service interviewers interrogate these arrivals at this location. A supply of the FBI "aviso" and the Director's message to newly arrived Cubans are distributed at this location.

It is to be recalled previous investigation has disclosed ROBLEJO has been in contact with REINALDO ABREU, Attache at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City and connected with Cuban Intelligence.

Also on June 29, 1967, MM [1115]-S reported LUIS RICARDO ALONSO, former Cuban Ambassador to London, who defected in 1965, has been in correspondence with ABREU having been introduced to him by RAUL ROA, Cuban Minister of Foreign Relations, in 1964. ABREU reportedly is in charge of dealing with Cuban exile groups and Cuban guerrilla groups and more specifically, has been in contact with ROBLEJO since he, ABREU is handling the matter of Cuban political prisoners. In addition, ABREU since he is unable to travel to Miami, has requested ALONSO to come to Mexico or to converse with NICOLAS RODRIGUEZ AZTARAEN, attached to the Cuban Mission to the United Nations in New York City in connection with this matter.

MM T-1 is SERGIO OSWALDO BETANCOURT COLLAZO.

The enclosed LHM is classified SECRET to protect the identity of a potential informant of continuing value.

In the event the Bureau decides that the enclosed LHM may be disseminated, a copy of this LHM may be furnished to the RCMP inasmuch as it does not contain any information

2.

SECRET

---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)