124-90092-10016 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90092-10016
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-67235-648

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 03/05/1963
PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS: WILLIAM K. HARVEY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; IB
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1 9
NW 50953 DocId:32330771 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I. CIA EFFORTS TO PENETRATE USSR                                                                                                                               5

II. INTERVIEW OF JOSEPH BURK, CHIEF,
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE, RESEARCH AND
ANALYSIS, TECHNICAL CAPABILITIES,
DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS, CIA                                                                                                                                      13

III. INTERVIEW OF JAMES CRITCHFIELD,
CHIEF, NEAR EAST-SUB ASIAN DIVISION,
DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS, CIA                                                                                                                                   24

IV. INTERVIEW OF WILLIAM K. HARVEY,
CIA                                                                                                                                                                29

V. INTERVIEW OF EARL ALLEN GOLD, CHEMIST,
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, TECHNICAL
SERVICES DIVISION, CIA                                                                                                                                         33

VI. INTERVIEW OF SERGE PETER KARLOW, CIA                                                                                                                            43

(A) Assignment to Technical Aids
Detachment (TAD), Frankfurt,
Germany, 1950 - 1953                                                                                                                                       78

(1) Travel in Europe During
Tenure at TAD                                                                                                                                                          82

(a) Travel to Berlin

(B) Tenure as Secretary of Technical
Requirements Board (TRB), 1958 -
1959                                                                                                                                                                   97

VII. INTERVIEW OF MRS. FERIDA KARLOW                                                                                                                                115

VIII. INTERVIEW OF MRS. PETER KARLOW                                                                                                                                  118

IX. INTERVIEW OF ROLAND ERNEST DULIN, CIA                                                                                                                             123

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

WFQ/65-8517 (u)

SECRET

(S) GOLD knew of no relatives of the KARLOWS living abroad nor was he aware of any financial interests which either of the (S)(4)
KARLOWS held in Germany. In discussing KARLOW's associates, (S) GOLD furnished the following individuals as being KARLOW's overseas friends:

*   GORDON STEWART, Head of the CIA Station at Frankfurt
*   WILLIAM K. HARVEY, CIA representative in Berlin
*   PETER SICHEL, CIA representative at Berlin
*   WALTER JESSELL, CIA official in Germany.

(S) GOLD characterized KARLOW as being primarily interested in associating with "front office personnel; that when KARLOW did mingle with the co-workers, it was more or less an act of condescendence."

(S) GOLD advised that because of the wide area that TAD was servicing in behalf of CIA, it was necessary that a number of TAD personnel be constantly travelling. (S) GOLD remarked that he was travelling steadily and that KARLOW was a frequent traveler in behalf of TAD. (S) GOLD could recall no specific dates of trips by KARLOW during the period 1950 to 1953, but furnished the following in this regard:

Vienna

(S) GOLD estimated that KARLOW probably made 12 to 15 trips to Vienna during this period for Agency purposes. He recalled that the Agency was servicing a number of requests from Vienna; that at one time, "We had a riotous operation going there and (S) FOSTER needed some help. (S) GOLD believed that FOSTER could furnish substantial information regarding KARLOW's activities in Vienna.

(S) GOLD recalled that during this particular period there were no travel restrictions on American personnel in and around Vienna; that frequently one was not aware he was even in a Soviet zone. (S) GOLD could not recall how long KARLOW remained in Vienna on his trips there


- 40 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

WFO15-8517
MAT Jet

SECRET

was not sure of the date. He mentioned HOUCK was still [Chief of Base at Berlin] and said he saw HOUCK. KARLOW explained that military orders were necessary for any travel into Berlin, including flight by Pan American Airways, which also operated under military control. He stated the orders for travel by train were the most formal, since a check by the Soviets was involved.

KARLOW related one of his men from TAD, [DANIEL C. NIESCHIUR] was stationed in [Berlin] under the name of [DANIEL O'NEILL]. He thought this was in 1951 or after 1951. He also stated that other men from TAD had temporary duty in [Berlin] and recalled vaguely the photography men had set up some new equipment and dark room there, [JOHN KOPERA] had visited Berlin in connection with some Polish matter, WESLEY PARCELLS on some German "things," and [JOUBLANC] the chemist, in connection with some case.

KARLOW said he could not say whether he was in Berlin in August, 1951, but recalled he was there on at least one occasion in the summer because he clearly remembered how early the sun rose in the morning.

KARLOW stated he rarely became involved in operations and was usually occupied in making arrangements and setting things up for use of the facilities of TAD. He recalled, however, he was involved in an operation with [JOHN PARKER] and HARRY ROSITZKE of the SR (Soviet Russia) Division and flew to Berlin in 1952 in this connection. KARLOW explained the operation involved a planned attempt to steal the latest model MIG fighter plane and great preparation had been made but at the last minute the adventure was called off because of possible, political and diplomatic repercussions [JOHN WILLIAMS PARKER].

KARLOW first said he was unable to recall visiting Berlin in 1953 but later said he recalled seeing WILLIAM K. HARVEY, Chief of Station, (December, 1952, to August, 1959) on more than one occasion so he supposes he did make such visits. When informed that it was understood that KARLOW had been to Berlin ten to fifteen times in the period 1950 - 1953, KARLOW offered no objection and said it was possible that this was true. With reference to his later assignment in Munich from November, 1953, to the end of 1955, KARLOW stated he was fairly certain he had not visited Berlin during this period.

- 83 -

NW 50953 DocId:32330771 Page 4

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

WFOx5-8517
MAT.Jet
SECRET

KARLOW stated he had stayed with Agency associates on some visits to Berlin and on one or more occasions he stayed the Harnach House, an Army guest house for the Berlin command

KARLOW further advised that before his marriage he and his mother had visited Italy and Corsica, and also the Austrian spa town of Bad Gastein and thought that may have been during the Summer of 1951. He said on a second trip to those areas he was accompanied by his mother and his wife

KARLOW also stated that after his marriage he and his wife had gone to Corsica on two occasions, and to Rome, and had spent New Years Eve 1952 - 1953 at a small town in Austria. These were purely personal trips. He said he did not recall having taken a trip to Berlin for purely personal purposes

KARLOW stated that before their marriage "LIBBY" RAUSCH had gone to Berlin and stayed at the residence of WILLIAM K. HARVEY. KARLOW said he had not visited Berlin with "LIBBY" before marriage but recalled he had done so on one occasion after marriage and he recollected he had become ill on the train from some oysters he had eaten.

KARLOW explained in early February, 1950, he proceeded to Frankfurt and took over as Chief of TAD which was located in the Frankfurt suburb of Hoechst at Feldbergstrasse 44, and had mail address APO 709. KARLOW resided in an apartment located in an adjoining building. KARLOW advised when he assumed charge of TAD the unit consisted of only about nine persons. From recollection KARLOW identified TAD personnel as follows:

1. Major ROBERT HARRIS, the previous Chief of TAD and a former officer of National Security Agency, (NSA)

2. Captain GUY DRENNAN, also formerly with NSA, and currently night Duty Officer with the Intelligence Branch of the Department of State; and

3. EARL ALLEN GOLD, a civilian scientist-chemist, who became deputy of KARLOW and had a small laboratory with several technicians and operated what KARLOW described as a postal censorship; and

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

WFO 65-8517
DEW:lpr

2

today is closely similar to that of his appearance 15 years
ago. He said he has never worn glasses and his weight
has increased only ten pounds since he was in college and
it has never varied more than that at any time. He said
he has never worn a mustache

Late in the interview, DULIN said upon further
recollection he remembers contacting a Professor HAROLD
MOSELEY, who was Head of Soviet Studies at Columbia University
In New York City, when DULIN was recruiting employees. DULIN
said that upon thoughtful consideration of his activities at
that time he recalled that there was a CIA interest in ob-
taining a well-qualified man for a position in Moscow. He
said efforts were being made to find a man who was to have
a cover in the Embassy in Moscow. This person to be hired
was supposed to have a fluent command of the Russian language
and he had to be of Anglo-Saxon descent. He said CIA gave
instructions that the man to be placed in the position in
Moscow could not be of Slovak descent DULIN said it_is
possible that HAROLD MOSELEY referred ROBERTS to DULIN as
a prospective employee for the position in Moscow
but at this time he has no recollection of either the name
or the face of ROBERTS. He said he could definitely state
he had never taken any recruit to Admiral HILLENKOTTER to
discuss employment DULIN said he does not know and does
not believe he has ever known the identity of any CIA
employee in Moscow, Russia

DULIN said he is unable to explain why ROBERTS
would have addressed any correspondence relating to his CIA
employment to an individual using the name of DULIN He
further said he cannot understand why correspondence would
have been addressed to SPENCER ROBERTS in New York City with
an address on the bottom of the letter "c/o R. E. DULIN
2001 16th StreetN. W., Washington, D. C. DULIN said he
had never authorized HARRY ROSITZKE or WILLIAM HARVEY to
use his name and address as a cover in correspondence re-
lating to recruitment of employees

DULIN said he is acquainted with HARRY A, ROSITZKE,
who is also employed with CIA DULIN said his association
with ROSITZKE is not now and has never been close. He said
he is unable to recall exactly when he became acquainted
with ROSITZKE but he associates their meeting with a period
shortly following World War II. He is unable to state hoW
they became acquainted because they have never been assigned
to the same work. They have never lunched together and they

- 124 -

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32330771 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

WFO 65-8517
AWN:mfm

Page

HARVEY, WILLIAM K. 29, 40, 83, 84, 124
HARVEY, Mrs. WILLIAM K. 38
HECKSCHER, HENRY 82
HEILMAN, GRANT 58
HEILMAN, PETER 109
HEINZ 34, 85
HELMS, RICHARD 78, 97
HENINWAY, THOMAS (Deceased) 56
HIGH, JOE BENTON 35
HILLENKOTTER, Admiral 124, 125, 126
HOFFMAN, WALDO BUSHNELL 72
HOLT, HARPER 87, 106
HOUCK, LESTER C. 82
HOUSTON, LAWRENCE R. 102
IN-EXFILTRATION PANEL, TRB 14
JACOBSEN, "ELLIE" (Deceased) 115
JACOBSEN, FANNY 70, 115
JACOBSEN, HARRY 70, 115
JACOBSEN, OTTO 70,
JAMES, PATRICK J. 113
JAMESON, DONALD 107
JESSELL, WALTER 40
JOHNSON, QUENTIN 98
JOUBLANC, JOSEPH CHARLES (JAY) 35, 83, 87
KALNAY, FRANCIS 72, 73
KALNAY, FRANK 61
KARLOW, ELIZABETH (LIBBY) 28, 42, 88, 94, 118
KARLOW, FERIDA 27, 29, 39, 115
KARLOW, SERGE PETER 43
KARLOW, SONJA 46, 55
KATEK, CHARLES 18, 24, 81
KATZ, MILTON 79
KAUFFMAN, WALTER J. 102
KAUFMAN, JOHN HEIDEN 67
KHOKHLOV, NIKOLAI 98, 104
KHRUSHCHEV, NIKITA 111
KIRKPATRICK, LYMAN B. 97
KISTNER, HARRY 95
KLEBANSKI, BERTHA 63
KLEBANSKI, ELIAS MEYER 63
KLEBANSKI, SAMUEL 63


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)