# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10023

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-112738-1201

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/03/1978

PAGES: 23

SUBJECT: OBA, SITUATION RPT, VENEZUELA, TERRORISM, CUBAN EXILES, CARTER, JIMMY, VISIT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 07/08/1998

UPDATE DATE:

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS: JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

PAGE 5. RUEΑΙΙΑ 9328 NOFNRN WNINTEL

1978 VISIT OF PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER. ALTHOUGH THERE IS A TENDENCY TO BLAME THE UNITED STATES FOR VENEZUELA'S CURRENT FINANCIAL PROBLEMS, IT IS DOUBTFUL THAT DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH MIGHT TAKE PLACE WOULD BE AIMED AT PRESIDENT CARTER, BUT RATHER THEY WOULD BE STAGED DURING THE PRESIDENT'S VISIT TO EITHER EMBARRASS THE CURRENT VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OR TO FURTHER DRAMATIZE THE CAUSE BEING ADVOCATED. (SOURCE: A STAFF OFFICER OF THIS AGENCY.)

3. THE VENEZUELAN SECURITY SERVICES RECOGNIZE THIS SITUATION AND EXPECT THAT THERE WILL BE UNPLEASANT, ANTI-VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT INCIDENTS DURING PRESIDENT CARTER'S CARACAS VISIT. VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES BELIEVE THESE INCIDENTS WILL DEAL WITH CHARGES OF HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS AND GOVERNMENT CORRUPTION. THE SECURITY FORCES WILL BE ABLE TO CONTROL ANY SITUATION THAT ARISES, THE AUTHORITIES BELIEVE. (SOURCE: AN OFFICIAL VENEZUELAN SERVICE.)

I. THE VENEZUELAN LEFTIST GROUPS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

PAGE 2 RUEAIIA 9329 NOFNRN WNINTE
POLISH DIPLOMATS. (SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH CONTACTS
AMONG [SECURITY OFFICIALS] AND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY (5) SECRET
RELIABLE.)

5. VENEZUELAN EXTREME LEFTIST GROUPS INCLUDE THE BANDERA
   ROJA (BR); THE BANDERA ROJA-MARXIST/LENINIST (BR/MLLN ALSO
   KNOWN AS THE ANTONIO JOSE DE SCURE. GUERRILLA FRONT: THE
   ARMED FORCES OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (FALN), AND THE ORGANIZATION
   OF REVOLUTIONARIES (OR). THESE GROUPS HAVE BEEN OPERATING IN
   THE EASTERN VENEZUELAN STATES, PARTICULARLY MONAGAS, ANZOATEGUI,
   SUCRE AND BOLIVAR. THEY HAVE CARRIED OUT NUMEROUS
   RAIDS ON MILITARY POSTS, HAVE TAKEN OVER SMALL TOWNS FOR A LIMITED
   PERIOD OF TIME DURING WHICH THEY LECTURED THE TOWNS PEOPLE ON
   ANTI-GOVERNMENT POLITICAL THEMES, AND IN GENERAL HAVE HARRASSED
   AND EMBARRASSED THE GOVERNMENT FOR SEVERAL MONTHS. (SOURCE:
   [A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WITH ACCESS TO OFFICIAL
   REPORTS] AND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE.) (5)

6. DESPITE A LARGE-SCALE VENEZUELAN MILITARY COMMITMENT
   IN THE EASTERN STATES, THE GUERRILLAS REMAIN
   (8) SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

PAGE 3 RUEAIIA 9329 NOFNRN WNINTEL

VIRTUALLY UNTOUCHE THEY MOVE ABOUT THE TOWNS AND CITIES OF THE AREA RELATIVELY FREELY AND GENERALLY ENJOY THE SUPPORT SECRET OF THE LOCAL CITIZENS. FOR THE MOST PART, THEY ARE NATIVES OF THE AREA, OR THROUGH THE YEARS HAVE SPENT A GOOD DEAL OF TIME THERE, HAVE MUCH IN COMMON WITH THE LOCAL PEOPLE, AND, IN SHORT, ARE MORE FRIENDLY AND THUS MORE WELCOME THAN THE GOVERNMENT SECURITY AND MILITARY PEOPLE. ESTIMATES OF THEIR STRENGTH RANGE FROM 50 TO 150 INDIVIDUALS. (SOURCE: [A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WITH ACCESS TO OFFICIAL REPORTS AND] WHOSE(S) REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE.)

7. THE GOVERNMENT'S OWN HEAVY HANDED METHODS IN DEALING WITH THE LOCAL POPULATION, HAVE, IN TURN, HARMED THE GOVERNMENT'S IMAGE IN THE AREA FAR MORE THAN THE GUERRILLAS COULD HAVE HOPED TO DO WITH THEIR OPERATIONS. ALTHOUGH THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICLY CLAIMS TO HAVE CAPTURED SEVERAL GUERRILLA LEADERS RECENTLY, THE PRISONERS ARE ILLITERATE FARM WORKERS WHO CLEARLY ARE NOT TRAINED GUERRILLA FIGHTERS. THOSE WHO FEEL THAT THEY HAVE BEEN VICTIMIZED BY THE SECURITY FORCES, TURN AWAY FROM THE GOVERNMENT AND TOWARD THE GUERRILLAS. MANY OF THOSE WHO ARE NOT

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32306883 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

PAGE 4 RUEAIIA 9329 NOFNRN WNINTEL

DIRECTLY AFFECTED ALSO LOSE RESPECT FOR THEIR GOVERNMENT WHICH, WHILE
MISTREATING THE CITIZENRY, FAILS TO ERADICATE THE GUERRILLAS. *SECRET* INVESTIGATIONS INTO THE GOVERNMENT'S ANTI-GUERRILLA ACTIVITIES
IN THE AREA ARE CURRENTLY UNDERWAY. (SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN
PROFESSIONAL MAN WITH GOOD CONTACTS IN SECURITY AND JUDICIAL[^5]
CIRCLES AND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE.)

8. DURING THE PAST TWO TO THREE MONTHS THE GUERRILLAS HAVE BEEN
   RELATIVELY INACTIVE. VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES HADBELIEVED THAT
   AFTER SPENDING AN ENJOYABLE HOLIDAY SEASON, THE GUERRILLAS WOULD
   RESUME THEIR CAMPAIGN IN FEBRUARY. THIS HAS NOT MATERIALIZED
   AND SECURITY OFFICIALS ARE NOW ATTEMPTING TO DISCOVER WHETHER
   THE GUERRILLAS HAVE TAKEN COVER AS A RESULT OF THE GOVERNMENT'S
   EFFORTS IN THE EASTERN STATES OR ARE REGROUPING AND PLANNING
   TO RENEW THEIR ACTIVITIES SOON. (SOURCE: AN OFFICIAL
   VENEZUELAN SERVICE.)[^5]

9. IN LATE FEBRUARY, HOWEVER, VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS
   RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT BR LEADER GABRIEL PUERTA
   APONTE AND SEVERAL OTHER GUERRILLA LEADERS WERE IN CARACAS.

*SECRET*

NW 50953 DocId:32306883 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

PAGE 5 RUEAIIA 9329 NOFNRN WNINTEL

PUERTA AND THE OTHERS ARE BELIEVED TO BE IN CONTACT WITH

SECRET

UNSPECIFIED EXTREME LEFTIST ELEMENTS AND PLANS FOR THE
SHIFTING OF THE GUERRILLA CAMPAIGN TO THE URBAN AREAS ARE
BEING MADE. (SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH CONTACTS
AMONG SECURITY OFFICIALS AND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY (S)
RELIABLE.)

10. THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT STILL BELIEVES THAT THE
    26 FEBRUARY 1976 KIDNAPPING OF UNITED STATES BUSINESSMAN
    WILLIAM F. NIEHOUS WAS CARRIED OUT BY THE BR, FALN AND THE OR
    WORKING JOINTLY. WHILE THE GOVRNMENT HAS IMPRISONED
    SEVERAL INDIVIDUALS FOR THEIR SUPPOSED INVOLVEMENT IN THE
    KIDNAPPING, THE CASE REMAINS UNRESOLVED AND NIEHOUS'
    WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN. (SOURCE: AN OFFICIAL VENEZUELAN
    SERVICE.)(S)

11. IN ADDITION TO THEIR RURAL MILITARY APPARATS, THE BR,
    OR AND FALN MAINTAIN QUASI- LEGAL FRONT GROUPS WHICH ARE
    ACTIVE IN THE URBAN AREAS. THE BR HAS NUMEROUS CIVIC

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32306883 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

PAGE 6 RUEAIIA 932 NOFNRN WNINTE

AWARENESS GROUPS SUCH AS THE COMMITTEE AGAINST THE HIGH
COST OF LIVING, THE STUDENT'S COMMITTEE FOR THE POPULAR
STRUGGLE (CLEP), ETC. THE OR MAINTAINS A FRONT GROUP KNOWN
AS THE SOCIALIST LEAGUE (LS, WHICH, IN TURN HAS ORGANIZED
THE UNITED POPULAR STUDENT MOVMENT (MEUP). THE FALN'S LESS
SUCCESSFUL FRONT IS RUPTURA . CLEP, MEUP AND RUPTURA HAVE
WORKED TOGETHER TO ORGANIZE THE RECENT STUDENT

SECRET

DISTURBANCES WHICH BEGAN IN MID-FEBRUARY. FURTHERMORE,
WHILE THERE IS NO PROOF, VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS BELIEVE THAT
THE FRONT GROUPS ARE NOW RECEIVING SUPPORT AND DIRECTION FROM
ABROAD. VENEZUELAN OFFICIALS EXPECT THESE DISTURBANCES
TO CONTINUE AND INDEED INCREASE UNTIL AFTER THE DECEMBER
ELECTION. (SOURCE: AN OFFICIAL VENEZUELAN SERVICE.)

12. IN DISCUSSING THE STUDENT DISTURBANCES, RETIRED
    GENERAL RAUL G I M E N E Z GAINZA, HEAD OF THE DIRECTORATE
    FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP), SAID
    THAT HE FULLY EXPECTS THE DEMONSTRATIONS TO CONTINUE FOR
    SOMETIME. FURTHERMORE, HE OPINED THAT THE POLICE HAVE
    AS YET NOT REALLY BEEN CALLED OUT IN FORCE TO HANDLE THE

BT
#9329

NW 50953 DocId:32306883 Page 7

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

PAGE 2 RUEAIIA 9330 NOFNRN WNINTEL
HAVE NOT ENGAGED IN LOOTING. SHOULD THIS OCCUR, HE PREDICTED,
THE NATIONAL GUARD WOULD QUICKLY BE CALLED OUT IN FORCE, SUCH
A MOVE, HOWEVER, COULD POSSIBLY RESULT IN SERIOUS INJURIES AND
A DETERIORATION OF THE SITUATION. (SOURCE: A PROFESSIONAL
MAN WITH CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS AND WHOSE (S)
REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE.)

SECRET

II. CUBAN EXILES

13. THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY IS LARGE, WELL-ESTABLISHED
    AND INFLUENTIAL. FURTHERMORE, IT CURRENTLY FEELS BETRAYED AND
    REJECTED BY BOTH THE USG AND THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT. IN
    THE FORMER CASE, THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY IS CONCERNED BY THE
    USG'S EXPANDED FRIENDLY RELATIONS WITH THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT.
    WITH REGARD TO THE GOV, THE EXILES HAVE COME TO DISTRUST
    THE PEREZ ADMINISTRATION WHICH THEY FEEL HAS UNJUSTLY
    HARRASSED THE COMMUNITY SINCE THE 6 OCOBER 1976
    BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINE, SUPPOSEDLY BY CUBAN EXILE EXTREMISTS.
    THE FAIRLY RECENT INSTANCE IN WHICH THE GOV REVOKED THE
    VENEZUELAN CITIZENSHIP OF A WELL-KNOWN CUBAN PHYSICIAN IN RETALIATION

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32306883 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

PAGE 4 RUEAIIA 9330 NOFNRN WNINTEL

BOTH THE GOV AND THE EXILE COMMUNITY FEAR THAT, SHOULD HE DIE, SECRET
EXILE EXTREMISTS WILL MOVE SWIFTLY AND STRONGLY AGAINST PRESIDENT
PEREZ. BOSCH HIMSELF HAS SAID THAT PRESIDENT PEREZ WILL BE HELD
PERSONALLY ACCOUNTABLE FOR HIS DEATH. (SEE HVC-7858, (S)
TDFIRDB-315/02855-78.) (SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH
CONTACTS AMONG CUBAN EXILES AND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY
RELIABLE.)

16. A RELATIVELY LARGE NUMBER OF FORMER CUBAN
    CITIZENS HOLD INFLUENTIAL POSITIONS WITHIN THE VENEZUELAN
    SECURITY SERVICES. AMONG THESE ARE ORLANDO GARCIA,
    DISIP'S CHIEF OF OPERATIONS, AND RICARDO MORALES, A
    FORMER DISIP SECTION CHIEF AND A CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF GARCIA.
    MORALES HAS IN THE PAST INDICATED HIS BELIEF THAT THE USG
    IS IN SOME MEASURE RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS CURRENT PROBLEMS AND
    ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS HAS MADE THREATENING REMARKS TOWARD USG
    PERSONNEL IN VENEZUELA. WHILE MORALES NO LONGER HOLDS AN
    OFFICIAL POSITION IN DISIP, HE DOES MAINTAIN SOME DISIP
    CONNECTIONS. MORALES TRAVELS ABROAD FREQUENTLY AND IS
    CURRENTLY BELIEVED TO BE OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY. (SOURCE:

NW 50953 DocId:32306883 Page 9 SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

PAGE 5 RUEAIIA 9330 NOFNRN WNINTEL
A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS AND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE.)

SECRET

17. THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY HAS RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT MORALES RECENTLY THREATENED THE LIFE OF DIEGO ARRIA, VENEZUELAN MINISTER OF INFORMATION AND TOURISM, WHILE ARRIA WAS TRAVELLING ABROAD. THE COMMUNITY HAS IN THE PAST SUSPECTED MORALES TO BE AN AGENT OF THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT. SINCE THEY FEEL THAT ARRIA IS A RATHER UNLIKELY TARGET FOR CUBAN EXTREMISTS, THE COMMUNITY BELIEVES THAT MORALES' THREAT, IF INDEED MADE, IS POSSIBLY A CUBAN GOVERNMENT ATTEMPT TO FURTHER DISCREDIT THE EXILE COMMUNITY IN VENEZUELA. (SOURCE: A VENEZUELAN BUSINESSMAN WITH CONTACTS AMONG CUBAN EXILES AND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY RELIABLE.)

II. INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM

18. ILICH "CARLOS" RAMIREZ SANCHEZ, THE NOTORIOUS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

PAGE 6 RUEAIIA 9330 NO FNRN WNINTEL

INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST, IS A VENEZUELAN CITIZEN WHOSE FAMILY RESIDES IN SAN CRISTOBAL, TACHIRA STATE. THERE HAS BEEN PAST INFORMATION THAT RAMIREZ' ASSOCIATES OCCASIONALLY TRAVEL TO VENEZUELA. THERE IS NO CURRENT INFORMATION INDICATING THAT "CARLOS" HIMSELF OR ANY OF HIS CURRENT CLOSE ASSOCIATES ARE NOW IN VENEZUELA. (SOURCE: [AN OFFICIAL VENEZUELAN SERVICE.](5))

SECRET

19. JOHNY KHOURI, LATIN AMERICAN HEAD OF THE POPULAR FRONT FOR THE LIBERATION OF PALESTINE (PFLP), RESIDES IN THE PORT CITY OF LA GUAIRA IN THE CARACAS FEDERAL DISTRICT. THE GOV IS AWARE OF KHOURI'S PRESENCE IN VENEZUELA AND HAS AGREED TO ALLOW HIM TO REMAIN IN THE COUNTRY WITH HIS FAMILY AS LONG AS HE DOES NOT BECOME INVOLVED IN PFLP OR ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA. IN AN EFFORT TO ENSURE KHOURI'S COMPLIANCE, THE GOV OCCASIONALLY MONITORS HIS ACTIVITIES. AS IN THE PAST, DISIP WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PLACE KHOURI UNDER "PREVENTIVE DETENTION" DURING PRESIDENT CARTER'S VISIT. (SOURCE: A STAFF OFFICER OF THIS AGENCY.)

20. IN ADDITION TO CUBAN EXILES, JEWISH AND ARAB GROUPS,

BT #9330

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32306883 Page 11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

PAGE 2 RUEAIIA 9331 NOFNRN WNINTEL
CARTER'S VISIT. (SOUDE: A STAFF OFFICER OF THIS AGENCY.)

IV. THE VENEZUELAN SECURITY SERVICES

21. THE VENEZUELAN SECURITY SERVICES, ESPECIALLY DISIP,
    HAVE BEEN HARD HIT BY PERSONAL RIVALRIES AMONG THEIR TOP
    OFFICIALS. PART OF DISIP'S DIFFICULTIES ARISE FROM CHARGES
    OF MISCONDUCT IN THE HANDLING OF THE ANTI-GUERRILLA CAMPAIGN
    IN THE EASTERN STATES. ANOTHER PART STEMS FROM MUTUAL DISTRUST
    AND BACKBITING AMONG ITS LEADERS. DISIP'S EFFICIENCY, WHICH UNDER
    NORMAL CONDITIONS IS NONE TOO GOOD, IS NOT UP TO ITS USUAL
    STANDARD. DISIP DIRECTOR GIMENEZ HAS VOICED HIS LACK OF
    FAITH IN THE YOUNGER GENERATION OF DISIP OFFICERS AND HAS
    EXPRESSED HIS DESIRE FOR A RETURN TO THE OLDER, MORE EXPERIENCED
    OFFICIALS. (SOURCE: [A VENEZUELAN PROFESSIONAL MAN] WITH CONTACTS (S)
    AMONG VENEZUELAN [SECURITY OFFICIALS] AND WHOSE REPORTING IS (S)
    GENERALLY RELIABLE.)

22. SINCE THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR BOTH DISIP AND THE
    TECHNICAL JUDICIAL POLICE (PTJ) HAVE EXPERIENCED FUNDING


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

PAGE 3 RUEAIIA 9331 NOFNRN WNINTEL

PROBLEMS WHICH, ACCOKING TO DISIP DIRECTOR GIMEWEZ, ARE DUE TO THE GOV'S CURRENT BUDGET PROBLEMS COUPLED WITH POOR ADMINISTRATIO DURING JANUARY AND FEBRUARY BOTH AGENCIES WERE FORCED TO BORROW FROM FEDERAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS TO MEET THEIR PAYROLLS. EVEN SO, PAYROLL DISBURSEMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE LATE. AS A RESULT, MORALE AMONG THE OFFICERS AND MEN OF THESE AGENCIES IS LOWER THAN USUAL. (SOURCE: A PROFESSIONAL MAN WITH CONTACTS AMONG (S) VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS AND WHOSE REPORTING IS GENERALLY (S) RELIABLE.)

23. THE DIRECTORATE OF MILITARY INTELLIGENCE (DIM) HAS NOT BEEN INVOLVED IN RECENT REORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL PROBLEMS AND IS GENERALLY STAFFED WITH CAREER MILITARY OFFICERS ON ROTATIONAL TOURS. DIM'S OPERATIONS IN THE EASTERN STATES ARE CURRENTLY UNDER. INVESTIGATION WHICH MAY, HOWEVER, CAUSE THIS SERVICE SOME PROBLEMS IN THE WEEKS AND MONTHS TO COME. (SOURCE: A STAFF OFFICER OF THIS AGENCY.)

24. VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS HAVE NOT YET BEGUN TO DO ANY SUBSTANTIAL PLANNING FOR PRESIDENT CARTER'S VISIT, BELIEVING

NW 50953 DocId:32306883 Page 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

PAGE 4 RUEAIIA 9331 S NOFNRN WNINTEL

IT IS TOO EARLY TO DO SO. PRELIMINARY THOUGHT, HOWEVER, HAS BEEN GIVEN TO ESTABLISHING A JOINT SPECIAL SECURITY COMMAND TO COORDINATE MILITARY, POLICE AND SECURITY UNITS ASSIGNED TO SAFEGUARDING PRESIDENT CARTER AND HIS PARTY. (SOURCE: AN OFFICIAL VENEZUELAN SERVICE.)[^5]

25. IN GENERAL, THE INTERNAL DIFFICULTIES OF THE SERVICES TEND TO MAKE BOTH DIM AND DISIP LESS FORTHCOMING WITH AND TRUSTFUL OF OUTSIDERS. FURTHERMORE, THEY ARE SUSPICIOUS OF EACH OTHER AND MUTUAL COOPERATION IS LIMITED. DESPITE THESE LIMITATIONS, THE VENEZUELAN SECURITY SERVICES ARE WELL DISPOSED TO AND CAN BE EXPECTED TO PROVIDE THE NECESSARY PROTECTION FOR AND COOPERATION WITH PRESIDENT CARTER AND HIS PARTY. (SOURCE: A STAFF OFFICER OF THIS AGENCY.)

V. EMBASSY COMMENT

25. (EMBASSY COMMENT: THE CHARGE HAS SEEN THIS REPORT AND HAS NO COMMENT TO ADD.)[^22]

NW 50953 DocId:32306883 Page 14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

PAGE 5 RUEAIIA 9331 NOFNRN WNINTEL SECRET

26. ACQ: VENEZUELA, CARACAS (2 MARCH 1978) FIELO

[HVC]7860. (S)

27. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, DEFATT, FBI, SECRET SERVICE
    CARACAS: SENT TO BRASILIA, RIO DE JANEIRO, LAGOS, MONROVIA,
    USCINCSO (J-2 ONLY).

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED-NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.
CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-1,2.

BT

#9331

NNNN C-INTO

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32306883 Page 15


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)