# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

**AGENCY:** FBI

**RECORD NUMBER:** 124-10221-10245

**RECORD SERIES:** HQ

**AGENCY FILE NUMBER:** CR 185-789-1655

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

**ORIGINATOR:** FBI

**FROM:** LEG, BUE

**TO:** DIRECTOR, FBI

**TITLE:**

**DATE:** 10/11/1977

**PAGES:** 4

**SUBJECT:**

**DOCUMENT TYPE:** PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

**ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION:** Secret

**NEW CLASSIFICATION:**

**REVIEW DATE:** 08/17/1998

**UPDATE DATE:**

**STATUS** Redact

**RESTRICTIONS:**

Consultation

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

**COMMENTS:** REFERRED TO AISC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

P 111845Z OCT 77 Oct 11 8.46 PM. 77
FM BUENOS AIRES (157-35) (P) RECEIVED
TO DIRECTOR (185-789) PRIORITY 23 SECTION
CARACAS (174-8)/ PRIORITY 039-11
BT
SECRET

OCH IL BOM; PFO-MURDER; EID: O0J. 00: WFO.

REMYCABLE, SEPTEMBER 23, 1977, WHICH CONTAINED INFORMATION
PROVIDED BY THE CENTRO NACIONAL DE INFORMACIONES (CNI)
FORMERLY KNOWN AS DINA) CONCERNING CONTACTS IN CHILE BY CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA. (S)

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS PROVIDED BY THE CIA STATION,
SANTIAGO, CONCERNING INDIVIDUALS REFERRED TO IN MY CABLE OF REFERENCE;

[CIA STATION, SANTIAGO] FILES CONTAINED INFORMATION
WHICH APPEARED IN THE JUNE 20, 1972 ISS[ST-133] "EL MERCURIO"
A SPANISH LANGUAGE DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHED IN SANTIAGO, 185-789-1655
PERTAINING TO CARLOS ASHTON XUGALDE WHICH INDICATED THIS INDIVIDUAL WAS ELECTED TO THE POSITION OF EXECUTIVE VICE- OF PRESIDENT (TREASURER) OR THE ASSOCIATION OF CHILEAN RADIO

![photo of handwriting]

SECRET

![photo of handwriting]

NW 50953 DocId:32340852 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

PAGE TWO BUE 157-35 SECRET

BROADCASTERS (ARCHI) IN THE NEW DIRECTORATE FOR THAT
ORGANIZATION DURING THE PERIOD 1972-1974. [IT COULD NOT BE
ESTABLISHED WHETHER CARLOS ASHION UGALDE IS IDENTICAL WITH
CORVETTE CAPTAIN CARLOS ASHTON, WHO WAS ASSIGNED TO THE CHILEAN
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS (MFR) AND AN ALLEGED CONTACT

F BOSCH.] (u)

[CIA RECORDS, SANTIAGO] INDICATE THAT A CIA SOURCE OF UNKNOWN
RELIABILITY REPORTED THAT IN 1969 MANUEL FUENTES WAS A REPORTER
FOR RADIO BALMACEDA, SANTIAGO.

A NEWSPAPER ART ICLE APPEARING IN THE JULY 2, 1973 ISSUE
OF "EL MERCURIO", SUPRA, REPORTED THAT MANUEL FUENTES WEDLING
(ALSO REPORTED AS WENDLING) WAS THE SECRETARY OF THE "PARIA
Y LIBERTAD" ORGANIZAT ION. THE ARTICLE FURTHER REPORTED THAT CHILE
FUENTES WEDL ING, TOGET HER WITH FOUR OTHER MEMBERS OF "PATRIA Y
LIBERTAD", SOUGHT ASYLUM IN THE ECUADORIAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO
ON JUNE 29, 1973 AND THAT THE GROUP SUBSEQUENTLY TRAVELED TO
ECUADOR AS ASYLEES ON JULY 7, 1973. IT IS NOTED THAT THE ALLENDE
GOVERNMENT HAD BEEN VIOLENTLY OPPOSED BY "QATRIA Y LIBERTAD"
AND THAT WITH THE OVERTHROW OF THE ALLENDE GOVERNMENT ON SEPTEMBER

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

PAGE THREE BUE 157-35 SECRET

11, 1973, IN ALL PROBABILITY, INDIVIDUALS WHO FLED CHILE FOR OPPOSITION TO THIS GOVERNMENT WOULD HAVE BEEN ALLOWED TO RETURN. (4)

A USUALLY RELIABLE CIA SOURCE REPORTED IN SANTIAGO DURING 1971 THAT CHILEAN NAVAL CAPTAIN JAIME ROJAS BRUGUES WAS AN INSTRUCTOR OF CRYPTOLOGY IN THE CHILEAN ARMY G-2 CHILE INTELLIGENCE TRAINING GROUP. THE CIA SOURCE OBTAINED THIS INFORMATION FROM A CLOSE FRIEND WHO WAS A STUDENT IN THIS INTELLIGENCE GROUP.(S)

- RECORDS OF THE DEFENSE ATTACHE OFFICE, SANTIAGO-INDI-CATE THAT JA IME ROJAS BRUGUES IN JANUARY, 1974 WAS SERVING AS THE SECURITY CHIEF OF THE CHILEAN MFR AND THAT HIS PRIMARY AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY WAS ASYLEE-REFUGEE AFFAIRS. DEFENSE ATTACHE OFFICE RECORDS IN SANTIAGO IND-I-CAT-E-T-HAT THE COMMANDER OF THE CHILEAN NAVAL TRAINING SHIP, "ESMERALDA" IS JORGE J. DAVANZO CINTOLESI.

- IT IS RECALLED-T-HAT CN-I-RE-PORTED THAT BOSCH RE-ENTERED CHILE DURING AUGUST, 1975 WITH A FALSE CHILEAN PASSPORT UNDER THE IDENTITY OF HECTORY DAVANZO CINTOLESI. CNI ALSO REPORTED THAT THE PASSPORT OF HECTOR DAVANZO CINTOLESI UTILIZED BY BOSCH WAS FALSE AND THAT THE BIOGRAPHIC DATA CONTAINED THEREIN WAS IDENTICAL TO (5)

SECRET

-3-

NW 50953 DocId:32340852 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

PAGE FIVE BUE 157-35 SECRET
BECKEL
THAT PERTAINING TO THE BROTHER OF THE COMMANDER OF THE "ESMERALDA."
(S) (S)
BUREAU REQUESTED TO ADVISE MIAMI, NEWARK, NEW YORK AND
WFO. (U)
ARMED AND DANGEROUS.
BT
TWZSIZQ ZE UEMY
JCWBKYE
![secret watermark]
-4-
NW 50953 DocId:32340852 Page 5


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)