# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Memorandum E. S. Miller to Mr. Rosen
Re: EXPANSION OF FOREIGN LIAISON

I pointed out that there would be no possibility of our "doubling up" with Narcotics investigators, explaining that our functions and methods of operation are totally different and would actually be incompatible in some areas. I noted that our modest request had actually been scaled down before it was forwarded to State and that we had limited each office to a single Agent with only one Clerk-Stenographer. I referred to the detailed explanation for our request which had been furnished in our letter of 10/14/71 to Mr. Irwin and stated that we would not have made the request if we had not felt it fully justified and responsive to the President's instruction. I said that we would, however, carefully consider each part of the request once more to see if there was any way in which the total number of personnel involved might be reduced. It was agreed that following this review, we would meet again for further discussion during the week of November 29, 1971. Comments and recommendations concerning the specific areas follow:

Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

The Agency for International Development Mission here has been withdrawn in the face of local criticism of U. S. efforts to influence the Brazilian Police. We have been covering this enormous country from our office in Argentina on a 2,500 mile round trip basis. No criticism has been made of our liaison contacts with the Brazilian Police or other agencies, and we feel we should insist on reopening our office here. By reducing our staff in Buenos Aires by one Agent and one clerk (which we intended to do anyway), reopening this office will result in no increase in personnel.

Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

There is an abnormally large percentage of Central Intelligence Agency personnel here on both an overt and covert basis, and the addition of another investigative agency is feared by the Ambassador as objectionable to the Malaysian Government which is endeavoring to maintain a neutral position. State asks that we let them explore the possibility of opening in Singapore instead of Kuala Lumpur. Singapore is extremely close and is actually a better location from the standpoint of travelers both east and west as Singapore is a normal international aviation stop. We believe Singapore would be just as good a location as Kuala Lumpur and recommend that State be asked to make the necessary arrangements without further delay.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)