# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 4/17/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10355

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 08/28/1961

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

Liaison Section
Mr. Donahoe
Mr. Little
Mr. Meier

REC 9 [105-24642 -4](5)

Date: August 28, 1961

To: Director
Central Intelligence Agency
Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject: EDUARDO ESPINOSA Y PRIETO
INTERNAL SECURITY - R - MEXICO(S)

COPIES MADE, DATE.......BY
RE
FOR REVIEW AT FBIHU AND/OR DELIVERY
TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED
(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Reference is made to your letter dated August 21, 1961, your reference CSCI-3/766,810(U)

A review of this Bureau's file on subject fails to reveal thatshe wrote bank drafts to active communist workers with the possible exception of Alicia Morine Fuentes. With regard to her, the only allegation that she was an active communist worker was made in February, 1941, by a person whose reliability was unknown to the United States Embassy in Mexico City, D. F. Our investigation failed to substantiate this allegation and you were so advised by letter under above caption dated September 24, 1959. Furthermore, at the time subject's bank draft to her was written (February 10, 1958) subject and Merino Fuentes were both connected with the Mexican(s) Mission to the United Nations, a fact which tends to reduce the intelligence significance of this payment.

Based on information in the files of this Bureau appears inadvisable to include in your summary to the Bundesant fuer Verfassungsschutz (BFV), Germany, that subject wrote bank (S) drafts to active communist workers or to suggest that he was used as a means of financing Communist Party activities.

ACM:bjb
SEE NOTE PAGE 2
LBI
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLAS A AND/OR,
RELEAS INFORMATION
DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS

BY COURIER SVC.
46 AUG 29
COMM-FBI

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-SLD/mde (JFK)
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

NW 50953 DocId:32337589 Page 2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

Director
Central Intelligence Agency

NOTE: This letter is classified "Secret" because it contains information so classified by CIA(U)

CIA seeks to pass a summary of information concerning subject of the BfV in Germany and has requested permission to include the following in this summary stating it comes from our files:

"During his New York City tenure, he was known to write bank drafts to persons known to be active Communist workers. It was suggested that he was used as a means of financing Communist Party activities."

CIA stated above conclusion "was apparently based on numerous Bureau reports written during 1957 and 1958." CIA refers specifically to only one bank draft, it having been written by subject [Alicia Merino Fuentes]and states that our report dated 10/12/56-contained information that she was an active communist. This report was in the case on/Merino Fuentes and the only allegation that she was an active communist was the 1941 allegation made to the Embassy in Mexico. Burau has developed no information indicating payees of other bank drafts, written by subject had subversive associations or sympathies.

- 2 -
  SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)