# SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wammall
Re: Samuel. Adason Jaffe
105-28333

Soviet defector ["Sammy"] has advised that Jaffe was recruited by the KGB, in about 1962 while he was in Moscow, through his relationship with a Soviet female. Soviet defector "Shamrock" has confirmed that Jaffe was approached but does not believe the approach was successful. Jaffe reported to the New York Office in 1963 what he interpreted as a recruitment effort, and he was extensively reinterviewed in 1969 concerning his association with KGB officers in Moscow. There is no information in Jaffe's file that he was ever reported on by Col. Penkovskiy, as Jaffe reportedly has claimed. During the interviews with Jaffe, he denied any overt acts helpful to the KGB, although he admitted a continuing relationship with several KGB officers. Both the New York and Washington Field Offices came to the conclusion that Jaffe was a KGB agent while in Moscow, but that there was doubt as to whether he continued in that role after he was expelled.

Our relations with Jaffe were tempered by ["Sammy's"] allegation, and Bureau Agents in contact with him were circumspect in any dealings with him thereafter. Jaffe very likely detected a change in the Agents' attitude which accounts for his statement that he felt his relationship with them had cooled off.

There is no evidence contained in Jaffe's file that either New York or Washington Field or the Bureau has ever taken any action which would affect Jaffe's livelihood. Following his return from Hong Kong, Jaffe told his handling Agents that he was experiencing difficulty in finding a job. He several times mentioned his concern that ris association with the FBI might be the reason. On each occasion, he was assured that the FBI had never divulged his confidential relationship and would not do so any time in the future.

Jaffe's file does disclose that during an interview with Washington Field Agents in 1969, he said that he had learned from a British Incolligence contact in Hong Kong that his recall from that city was caused by his refusal to cooperate with CIA. He also related that he later mentioned this to a CIA contact in Washington who responded that the British

SECRET

- 2 -

CONTINUED - OVER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET
SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Samuel Adason Jaffe
105-23333

Intelligence representative "had no right to tell you this."
CIA has informed us that they did have contacts with Jaffe while he was in Hong Kong and that he reported on Communist Chinese of interest to the Agency. His file also records that Jaffe told New York Agents in 1969 that a recently published book on the Council of Foreign Relations described him as having a subversive background. He was also described in the book as being a member of the American League for Peace and Democracy. Jaffe connected the appearance of this book with his then recent recall fron Hong Kong by ABC.

ACTION:

That this memorandum be referred to the SENSTUDY project in view of probable inquiries from SSCIO.


SECRET
- 3 -


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)