# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90139-10071
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 110-6-210-445

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SU
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 11/28/1961
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
ECONOMIC MATTERS CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32337944 Page 1
7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
5010-104-02
UNITED STATES GORNMENT

# Memorandum

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI SECRET DATE: 11/28/61

SAC, SALT LAKE CITY (62-0) -C- Economic Matters

SUBJECT: LARGE QUANTITIES OF JUTE BAGS AND HESSIAN CLOTH SOUGHT BY CUBAN GOVERNMENT BY PURCHASE OR BARTER THROUGH INTERNATIONAL ORE AND FERTILIZER COMPANY, NEW YORK CITY, Cuba

CIA HAS TO NEW YORK, AND OTHER UNKNOWN CONCERNS

AND/OR NOVEMBER, 1961.1/

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION MISCELLANEOUS (DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCE DIVISION)

THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS

K 8-20-98 KP 5-11-98

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau are the original and three copies of a letterhead memorandum captioned as above. Also enclosed are photostats of two teletypes (total of four pages) purporting to be copies of teletypes from International Ore and Fertilizer Company, New York City, New York, to St. Regis Paper Company, Bag Division, Salt Lake City, Utah.

The photostats and information set forth in the letterhead memorandum were furnished to SA JOHN R. PHILIPS, Jr., by a man identifying himself as HERBERT LEVY, Director of Central Operations, St. Regis Paper Company, Bag Division, 2357 South Eighth West, Salt Lake City, Utah, telephone Hunter 6-7171. Mr. LEVY said he resides at 2884 Hyland Hills Road, Salt Lake City, Utah, residence telephone Hunter 4-6424. Mr. LEVY stated he resided at Houston, Texas, about five years ago, and at that time, he traveled abroad, mostly in [India] for his company, St. Regis Paper Company. While living in Houston, Texas, [a representative of Central Intelligence Agency] name and telephone number (5) not now recalled, contacted LEVY on several occasions and requested him to obtain various types of information on his trips to [India]. The type of information requested and obtained by LEVY was mainly of an economic nature, or with respect to some company or individual in India.

2 - Bureau (Enc.
1 - Salt Lake City

JRP: ps

Let- Salt Lake City

RAM: br

NW 50953 DocId:32337944 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)