# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10218-10058

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-1ST NR 130

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: DOS

FROM: SAUNDERS. HAROLD H.

TO: THE SECRETARY

TITLE:

DATE: 10/18/1976

PAGES: 10

SUBJECT: CASTRO, FIDEL, SPEECH, ALLEGATIONS, CIA INVOLVEMENT, CUBANA AIRLINER, BOMBING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 05/12/1998

UPDATE DATE:

STATUS: Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS: INC MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET/SENSITIVE

October 19, 1976

Additional Questions (answers and comments needed by late morning, October 20)

1.  Has CIA had any relationship with Posada's investigative agency or any other business he may have had?

2.  What was the nature of the contacts CIA had with Posada after he was terminated? What did the contacts have to do with Cuba?

3.  Who was the visa for that Posada approached the CIA and the defense attache about in June 1976?

4.  Does the CIA believe that the source of TDFIR DB-315/10256 deliberately, delayed passing on Bosch's and Posada's remarks about hitting a Cuban plane until after the incidents?

5.  Does the CIA have any additional relevant information on any of the people named in the draft memorandum, or any other information relating to the sabotage of the plane, which it has not yet disseminated in TDFIR form?

6.  Would CIA please provide whatever information it has concerning Orlando Garcia and Ricardo Morales so that para b on page 8 of the draft memorandum can be completed?

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT. ASSANITIZED

70 MAY 19 1977.

SECRET/SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
SENSITIVE

- 2 -

by Cuban counterrevolutionaries. Now we
decidedly believe the first assumption is correct.
The CIA directly participated in the destruction
of the Cubana aircraft in Barbados."

--The principal leaders of Cuban exile terrorist
groups are closely linked through the CORU organi-
zation to CIA activities against Cuba.

In his speech, Castro did not make any specific alle-
gations concerning a USG relationship with Orlando Bosch,
or Luis Posada (two Cuban exile activists who were arrested
by Venezuelan authorities in connection with the Cubana
crash). However, the link with Bosch is implied since he
is reported to be chief of CORU, the umbrella organization
of Cuban exile terrorists.

Individuals Allegedly Involved

Hernan Ricardo Lozano

a. Involvement in the Crash: He was arrested in
Trinidad on suspicion of having planted a bomb in the Cubana
plane. Caracas radio announced on October 18 that he
confessed to sabotaging the airliner. A[CIA] source in
Caracas reports that Ricardo may have been trained in the
use of explosives and investigative techniques by Luis
Posada. CIA information also reveals that Trinidadian
officials have told the Venezuelans that they have a taped[^1]

[^1]: (s)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET
SENSITIVE

- 3 -

[telephone conversation between Ricardo and Posada discussing their participation in the bombing.](5)

Ricardo, a Venezuelan citizen, a photographer employed by Posada in his industrial security firm in Caracas. A
[CIA](5) source says that Ricardo is also a part time employee of the Venezuelan Intelligence Service (DISIP). He reportedly gathered photographic material on groups and individuals of interest to DISIP and the Venezuelan Government. He was hired by DISIP when Pasada was official of that organization.(5)
The [CIA] source says that the Venezuelan Government is concerned and would be faced with serious problems if these connections become public knowledge.

b. Relationship with US: [CIA states it has had no contact with Ricardo.](5) The US Legal Attache in Caracas, Joseph Leo says that he has had some dealings with Ricardo for help in expediting visa applications for a DISIP official's son, and for Ricardo himself. He also contacted Leo two times to furnished photographs and biographical data on members of the Cuban Embassy in Caracas. Apparently, the material came from DISIP files.(6) During one visit, Ricardo attempts to solicit suggestions from the Legal Attache on activities which might be directed against the Cuban Embassy by an anti-Castro group to which he belonged. Leo says he discouraged Ricardo, pointing out that the US Government was attempting to prevent disruptive and


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET
SENSITIVE

- 4 -

terrorist activities by anti-Castro groups in the US, and Ricardo never repeated the suggestion.

## Freddy Lugo

a. *Involvement in the crash:* Lugo was arrested in Trinidad with Ricardo on suspicion of having planted the bomb[^1] aboard the Cubana plane. A [CIA] source alleges that Lugo apparently was only peripherally involved in the bombing and is not considered to be one of the leading participants.

Lugo, a Venezuelan citizen, is also a photographer employed by Posada's company. According to [a CIA] source, he also worked for DISIP under the same arrangements noted above for Ricardo.

b. *Relationship with US:* CIA states that it has had no contact with Lugo.[^1] The name and phone number of US Legal Attache Leo were discovered in Lugo's address book when he was arrested in Trinidad. Leo says that he has had no contact with Lugo and speculates that his name and phone were furnished to Lugo by Posada.

## Luis Posada Carriles

a. *Involvement in Crash:* Posada was arrested on October 14 in Venezuela along with Orlando Bosch and three others accused of conspiring to sabotage the plane. Posada, a Cuban exile who is now a Venezuelan citizen, is vehemently anti-Castro and is suspected of having been the main supporter of Bosch during the latter's stay in Venezuela prior to being

SECRET
SENSITIVE

[^1]: (5)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET
SENSITIVE

- 5 -

arrested in November 1974. Posada was formerly chief of the
counterintelligence division of the Venezuelan intelligence
service, DISIP.

b. Relationship with US. CIA says that Posada was a
paid informant. The relationship was discontinued in July
1967, but contact was reestablished in October of the same
year.[^1] When he lost his position in DISIP in March 1974, CIA[^2]
says the relationship was "amicably terminated." Though he
was not paid thereafter, CIA continued to have occasional
contact with him until February 1976 when a formal written
agreement of termination was signed. The latest contact
between CIA representatives and Posada occurred in June 1976
when CIA declined to assist Posada on a visa matter.

The US army attache has also used a Posada business
partner (also a Cuban exile, whose name we do not have) as
an informant (though not as an agent).

Our Legal Attache (Joseph Leo) became acquainted with
Posada during the latter's employment by DISIP, and after
his resignation, Posada continued to contact Leo on rare
occasions, usually in order to obtain personal service in
regard to visa requests for relatives and business associates,
the last being Ricardo on October 1, 1976. Leo says he has
seen Posada on about three occasions since 1973, the last being
in June 1976 when Posada inquired if the FBI had interest in
a Venezuelan who had hired two of his "operatives" as body
guards.

[^1]: When he lost his position in DISIP in March 1974, CIA
[^2]: says the relationship was "amicably terminated."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET
SENSITIVE

- 6 -

# Orlando Bosch

a. Involvement in Crash: As noted above, Bosch was arrested in Venezuela for alleged involvement in the Cubana crash. In late June, a CIA source reported that an exile group headed by Bosch planned to bomb a Cubana flight between Panama and Havana. An FBI source has alleged that one attempt was made but the bomb did not detonate. A second try occurred in Jamaica on July 9, but the bomb exploded before the suitcase in which it was carried was put aboard the plane.[^5]

According to CIA sources, Venezuelan President Carlos Andres Perez is said to be sympathetic to Bosch and has permitted him to travel freely in the country and solicit funds with the understanding that Venezuela would not be used as a base of operations or place of refuge. Bosch reportedly promised not to engage in terrorist activity while in Venezuela, and received a token $500 contribution from Perez. Another CIA source reported that after Bosch's arrival in Caracas in September, he stated during a fund raising dinner that "Now that our organization has come out of the Letelier job looking good, we are going to try something else." A few days later, Posada allegedly said, "We are going to hita Cuban airliner" and "Orlando (Bosch) has the details.".

b. Relationship with US. CIA says there are no current or recent agency contacts with Orlando Bosch.[^5] The US is currently attempting to have Bosch deported from Venezuela

SECRET
SENSITIVE

NW 50953 DocId:32296782 Page 7

[^5]: (S)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET
SENSITIVE

- 7 -

to the US, where he is subject to immediate imprisonment for
parole violation{spell out}

Frank Castro

a. Involvement in Crash: Venezuelan officials reportedly
believe that Castro, (head of the FLNC terrorist organization,
a component group in CORU) is deeply involved in the crash,
though we have no details of his supposed involvement. Frank
Castro was in Venezuela in late September 1976 and in mid-
October was back in Miami. Frank Castro has admitted to FBI
agents that he met with Bosch in Caracas on September 26 or
27, but denies any personal knowledge of the bombing of the
Cubana plane.

b. Relationship with US; [CIA says there are no current[^1]
or recent agency contacts with Frank Castro[^1], who is an
American citizen with permanent residence in Santo Domingo.

Orlando Garcia and Ricardo Morales Navarrete

a. Involvement in Crash: Orlando Garcia is President
Perez' security and intelligence advisor, and Morales is Garcia's
deputy; both are Cuban exiles who are now Venezuelan citizens.
[A CIA source[^1]] claims that Garcia was directed to protect and
assist Bosch during his stay in Venezuela. [Another CIA source[^1]]
reported that Garcia and Posada met Bosch upon his arrival and
escorted him to his hotel. Both Garcia and Morales reportedly
attended the fund-raising dinner during which Bosch allegedly
made the remark about the "Letelier job," and after the Cubana

SECRET
SENSITIVE

NW 50953 DocId:32296782 Page 8

[^1]: (S)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET
SENSITIVE

- 8 -

crash Garcia may have made an effort to get Bosch out of Venezuela. It is possible, therefore that Garcia and/or Morales may have known in advance about the operation which led to the bombing of the plane.

b. Relationship with US:

Felix Martinez Suarez

a. Involvement in Crash: None, except by the alleged association with Ricardo, contained in Fidel Castro's charges.

b. Relationship with US: CIA says that Suarez was a CIA media asset from 1961 to January 1974 when he was terminated as a result of his exposure in the Venezuelan media.[^5]

Castro's allegation regarding CORU: With regard to Castro's charge on CIA links with CORU, an FBI report of September 17 states that "a confidential source abroad" claims to have been told by Roberto Carballo (leader of the Association of Veterans of the Bay of Pigs, AVBC, one of the component organizations of CORU) that in July of this year Carballo and three other Cuban exiles had been approached by representatives

SECRET
SENSITIVE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)