# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form
Date: 4/9/2015

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10104

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-99724-78

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BRENNAN

TO: SULLIVAN

TITLE:

DATE: 01/13/1967

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM: D. J. Brennan, Jr.

DATE: 1/13/67

SUBJECT: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)
INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM JAMES ANGLETON

In 1953 we created a separate control file (62-99724) under the caption, "CIA - James Angleton," for the purpose of retaining copies of certain types of memoranda disseminated to us by James Angleton, Chief, Counterintelligence Staff, CIA. We believe that it is no longer necessary to maintain this control file.

In the way of background, the control file was created to give us the opportunity of closely monitoring our liaison with Angleton on a variety of matters which were not reported through normal CIA channels. CIA Directors permitted Angleton to run several intelligence projects, many of them with the Israeli Intelligence Service. He was given authority by CIA to handle these projects and report only to the Director, CIA. He was given authority to disseminate to the FBI on all matters of interest to us. In 1953 we worked out an agreement where Angleton disseminated to us, and we attributed the information to Bureau Informant 100. The field was given appropriate instructions regarding the handling and reporting of the information. This procedure is still in existence and is operating satisfactorily.

The information disseminated by Angleton is filed in the case file of an individual or an organization. The control file consists of copies of communications already recorded in separate case files. There has been little or no occasion to use the control file, and its usefullness at this point can be characterized as being obsolete.

RECOMMENDATION:

It is recommended that it no longer be necessary to place copies of Bureau Informant 100 material in the control file. The file will continue to be used for retention of mail of a policy nature.

62-99724

1 - Mr. DeLoach

1 - Mr. Tavel

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Cotter

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)