# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10284

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-78890-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PAPICH

TO: BRENNAN

TITLE:

DATE: 07/05/1963

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

LEVI LAUB

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NW 50953 DocId:32337518 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
UNITED STATES GOVERN ENT

# Memorandum

TO : D. J. BRENNA

FROM : S. J. PAPICH

SUBJECT: LEVI LAUB
UNAUTHORIZED TRAVEL TO CUBA

SECRET

DATE: July 5, 1963

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS ICLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy

Reference is made to Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) letter dated April 18, 1963, captioned "U. S. Nationals in Cuba." The Liaison Agent was instructed to obtain more specific information concerning subject's reported travel to Cuba. The following was furnished to the Liaison Agent on July 3, 1963, by A. P. Flynn, CIA:

Information received by CIA indicated that the subject was in Cuba during the period February 22-March 11, 1963. CIA received this information from the British Intelligence Service (MI-6). The British obtained the data from Gavin Young, a British news paperman(s) who was in Cuba during the same period described above. MI-6 has advised CIA that Young is currently traveling to San Francisco. (The)(s) British MI-6 representative in Washington, D. C. eplans to contact Young and work out arrangements whereby (Young can be made available to the Bureau for interview.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention of the Subversive Control Section.

105-78890

1 - Mr. Bland
1 - Mr. Haack
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Papich

SJP:gp (5)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION. AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR the brackers.
RP 3-14-98

REC-69 105-78890-

EX-108

9 JUL 9 1963

4-1-98
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X16
(JFK)

NW 50953 DocId:32337518 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)