# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# 124-10274-10011

## 62-116395

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

June 23, 1975

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr. R. L. Moore

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMITTEE (SSC)

TO STUDY GOVERN-INTAL OFLERATIONS

WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

RE: FURTHER DOCULLETS PERTAINING TO THE

FBI AND DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

ORGANIZATION, CTRUCTURE, AND JURISDICTION

> ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
> HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
> DATE 10/13/00 BY SP2A

Reference is rade to SCC lotter dated May 14, 1975, with attached appendices, requesting certain documents and other information from the FBI.

Fursuant to your requcct in Appendix B, Items 13 and 14, for all nemoranda and other materials reflecting reetings and contacts during 1971 between the Frosident and the Director of the FBI and between officials of the FBI and officials of the Department of State on the subject of "legal attaches," enclosed are copies of 23 documents.

Enclosures (23)

1 - The Attorney General

RLM:mam

(8)) ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG

NOTE:

The Senate Committee request is understood to be a request for contacts with reference to the legal attaches as a group and therefore contacts between officials of the FBI and officials of the State Department pertaining to any one partic-ular legal attache, such as Tel Aviv, have not been included. In the enclosures there is reference to State 'dragging its feet," and information that/negotiations with the State Department the fact that collection of political intelligence was the primary purpose for the expansion of legal attaches was concealed from the State Department. The enclosures also contain information that there are a large number of CIA employees assigned to the U. S. Embassy at Kuala Lumpur

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE TWO

MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT ENCLOSURE

![CIA employees assigned to the U. S. Embassy at Kuala Lumpur]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)