# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 6/17/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90158-10062

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-1924

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM: CIA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/31/1973

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: POLITICAL MATTERS
LUIS POSADA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: CABLE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Intelligence Inforation Report

Classified by Recorded Reporting Officer. Exempt from General Declassification Schedvio of E.O. 11652 Exemption Category 38 (1), (2)
Impossible to determine date of automatic deciascution.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00339-73

DATE DISTR. 31 January 1973

SECRET

COUNTRY Venezuela

8 December 1972

SUBJECT Reorganization of the Directorate of the Service of Intelligence and Prevention

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED.
DATE 2-22-95 BY SP8 MACIEH
JFK

FIELD NO. CBVC-6525

SOURCE Venezuela, Caracas (15 December 1972)

An experienced police investigator whose position gives him access to information on matters affecting the internal security of Venezuela. He reports without the knowledge of his superiors. His information has been frequently confirmed by independent sources. (Ile provided a copy of the reorganization document

1. On 8 December 1972 the Directorate of the Service of Intelligence and Prevention (DISIP) was reorganized by its Director, Dr. Remberto Uzcategu Bruzual.

(Source Comment: Uzcategui believes DISIP will be in line for criticism during the election year of 1973. and he wants to remove from positions a responsibility any of his controversial section heads.) The gist of the document issued by Uzcategui reorganizing DISIP follows'.

2. The Director of DISIP sets the general policy based on instructions from the Ministry of the Interior and has ultimate control of the Services. The Deputy Director assists him in carrying out these responsibilities and substitutes for the Director during his absence. As its supervisory and fiscal units, DISIP has an Inspector General of Services who has the responsibility of disciplining personnel and investigating employees, and an internal comptroller who verifies the administration of the Services.

3. The following are the DISIP executive positions:

a. Secretary General of Services, which has been assigned to Dr. Oswaldo Dominguez.

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

90158-10062

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

CSCI-316/00339-73

FEB 16 12 44 PM '73

Chief of the General Information Division, which has been assigned to Lic. Joaquin Chaffardet.

c. Chief of the General Operations Division which has been assigned to Commissioner Rodrigo Nieves Zarco. 16 FEB 1973

4. The Chiefs of the Zones and other branches in the interior are under the jurisdiction of the Secretary General of Services. They will handle administrative matters, intelligence and operations directly with the corresponding Divisions and will receive from them the general requirements to be fulfilled.

5. The General Operations Division has nationwide responsibility for all police and operational matters. It will be formed by as many operating divisions as there are specific activities to be fulfilled. The current operating divisions are:

a. First Division (Prevention), headed by Commissioner Adolfo Romero Gomez.

b. Second Division (Agent Control), headed by sub-commissioner Arpad Bango.

c. Third Division (Patrol), headed by Sub-Commissioner Julio Cesar Vianza.

d. Fourth Division (Explosives and Armaments), headed by Commissioner Luis Posada.

e. Fifth Division (Protection), headed by Commissioner Luis Martins Guerra.

6. The General Information Division has nationwide responsibility for all intelligence and counter-intelligence matters, with the exception of subversion which is wholly the responsibility of the General Operations Division. The General Information Division will be formed by as many divisions as there are specific activities to be fulfilled. Currently these are:

a. Eleventh Division, headed by Commissioner Jose Vasquez Blanco.

b. Twelfth Division (Archives and Analysis), headed by Dr. Rafael Riva Vasquez.

c. Thirteenth Division (USSR and Bloc Embassies), headed by sub-commissioner Alejandro Sato.

7. The Secretary General of Services has responsibility for all administrative matters, including personnel and requests for services, equipment and finances. He also has responsibility for all matters not falling under the jurisdiction of the two general divisions, and in particular for those related to the Divisions of Personnel and Administration.

8. Field Dissem: Embassy at Caracas.

SECRE T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50953 DocId: 32340405 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)