# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/8/2015

## Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10172
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-82352-1

## Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 10/27/1959
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: EPE, GONZALEZ, CARLOS HILARIO, SUSP, CONSPR,
MURDER, VENTURA, ESTEBAN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# FBI

Date: 10/27/59

Transmit the following in

Via AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code) AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105- )

CARLOS HILARIO GONZALEZ

IS - CUBA; RA - CUBA

Enclosed are 11 copies of a letterhead memorandum concerning an alleged plot by the subject to kill ESTEBAN VENTURA NOVO. The source of the information in enclosed memo is ANA ROSA GUERRA, who contacted this office on 10/24/59 and advised she works for BERNARD L BARKER, in an undercover capacity in CUBA where she is employed as secretary to ALBERTO BAYO COSGAYA, Chief of Air Fumigation-Technical, Cuban Air Force. BAYO has been described as a key figure in the Cuban Air Force and was described by GUERRA as definitely a Communist. BARKER advised SA JOHN R. BARRON on 10/7/59 that he works for CIA in an undercover capacity in Cuba. This memorandum is classified confidential to protect the identity of GUERRA who apparently is a CIA source. GUERRA returned to Cuba on 10/26/59.

Information concerning the alleged plot against VENTURA has been furnished to the Miami Police Department and the Dade County Department of Public Safety. ESTEBAN VENTURA will be advised that there is possibly a plot to kill him but that no protection can be given him by this Bureau.

3 - Bureau (AM) (Encl-11) (Rm)

4 - Miami (2 - 105- CARLOS HILARIO GONZALEZ)

(1 - 105-1715, Cuban Retailiation Against Batista Adherents)

(1 - 105-1720, ESTEBAN VENTURA)

WBH:sll (7)

NW 50953 DocId:32303660 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)