# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10337

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-37

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: SAC. MM

TITLE:

DATE: 10/15/1976

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT: OBA, SUSP, CUBANA AIRLINES, BOMBING, TRA, ASSOC, POLIT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL
CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW
CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 05/11/1998

UPDATE DATE:

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

WW FIATA 63

AO RUEPI

DE BUFALIA #6399 990439T

ZLY SSSSS

0 1502547 OCT 76T

FM CIA

TO ZEN/ SECRET SERVICE//ID

ZEN/DIRNSA//NSOC>

ZEN/STATE ROI

ZEN/TREASURY DEPT

ZEN/CNO

ZEN/SSO ACSI DA

ZEN/AFS SO USAF

RUEKICS/DIA

ZEN/JCS

ZEN/SVS WASHDC

RUEHC/DEPT OF STATE//OCT

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 15 1976

TELETYPE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.
EXCEPT BRACKETS ON pqs.
2, 3, 4 AND 6 GMB 8-5-961

FBC INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 4/12/94 SPOMAC/GCL
(JFK)

RUPI/FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ZEN/CIA OPSGEN

For information cir recerype 10/15/76 is set forth below

ET

SECRET NOFORN. CITE CIA 928148.T

TDFIRDB-315/10256-76 (ADVANCE)T

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE



NW 50953 DocId:32291061 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

FNGKIZA 6380 SECRET NOFORN

* SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--T
  NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.T

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CUBA

DOI : LATE SEPTEMBER - 12 OCTOBER 1976T

SUBJECT: ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH DURING
HIS STAY IN VENEZUELA

ACQ : VENEZUELA, CARACAS (13 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO. HVC 7514T (S)

SOURCE: A FORMER VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL WHO STILL MAINTAINS
CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS WITH GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS. HE IS A
USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER. HIS INFORMATION IS NOT TO BE
DISCUSSED WITH ANY FOREIGN OFFICIALS, INCLUDING THOSE
OF THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT.T

1. FIELD COMMENT: IN LATE SEPTEMBER 1976 A USUALLY RELIABLE
   SOURCE REPORTED THAT CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH WAS IN
   VENEZUELA UNDER THE PROTECTION OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT CARLOS
   ANDRES PEREZ. FURTHERMORE, PEREZ HUD APPOINTED HIS SECURITY
   AND INTELLIGENCE ADVISER ORLANDO GARCIA TO PROTECT AND ASSIST

NW 50953 DocId:32291061 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

PAGE 3473-88-6380 SECRET NOFORN
POSCH DURING HIS STAY IN VENEZUELA. FOR THIS INFORMATION SEE
HVC-7498, DFIRDB-315/ -76. IN HVC-7483, DFIRDB-315/T(S)
09430-76, OF MID-SEPTEMBER, A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY
REPORTED THAT BOSCH ARRIVED IN VENEZUELA ON APPROXIMATELY 13 SEPTEMBER.)T

2. UPON HIS ARRIVAL IN CARACAS, BOSCH WAS MET AT THE AIRPORT
   BY GARCIA AND LUIS CLEMENTE POSADA, A PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR
   AND ONE-IME MEMBER OF THE DIRECTORATE FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE
   AND PREVENTION (DISIP), WHO ESCORTED POSCH TO HIS CARACAS HOTEL.T
   FIELD COMMENT: WHILE CURRENTLY NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIZENS, T
   BOTH GARCIA AND POSADA ARE NATIVE-BOPN CUBANS.)T

3. SOMETIME FOLLOWING BOSCH'S ARRIVAL IN CARACAS, A BS.T
   5,070 (APPROXIMATELY U.S. $1,118) A PLATE FUND-RAISING DINNER FOR
   BOSCH WAS HELD AT THE HOME OF HILDO FOLGAR, A PROMINENT
   SURGEON AND CUBAN EXILE. IN ADDITPON TO BOSCH, AMONG THOSE ATTENDING
   THE DINNER WERE GARCIA; RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE, GARCIA'S
   DEPUTY WHO IS ALSO A NATIVE BORN CUPAN; POSADA; AND AN UNIDENTIFIED
   HIGH-LEVEL OFFICIAL OF THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR.T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

PAGEAΕΙΑ '6380 SECRET NOFORN

*   HAS DIFFERENT INFORMATION AS TO WHETHER BOSCH WAS EXFILTRATED OR IS OR IS NOT IN VENEZUELA. GARCIA SPOKE TO LEGATT SUNDAY MORNING, LAT OCTOBER, AND ON THZ AFTERNOON OF 12 OCTOBER TOLD HIM "NNFORMALLY "T THAT THE PRESIDENT WOULD SHORTLY ADVISE ME THAT BOSCH WOULD BE TURNED OVER TO US.THIS WAS REPEATED TO LEGATT BY DISIP DIRECTOR RAUL GIMENEZ GAINZA AND OTHER DISIP OFFICIALS (NNCLUDING GARCIA) NN A MEETING THE MORNING OF 13 OCTOBER. CONCEIVABLY GARCIA CAN BE PLAYING A DARK GAME, BUT THE DISCREPANCIES ARE NOTEWORTHY.T I HAVE NOT YET RECEIVED ANY OFFICIAL WORD AS TO THE PRESIDENT'S DECISION.OT

11. FIFLD DISSEM: EMBASSY, LEGATT AT CARACAS: SENT TO [PORT OF SPAIN, GEORGETOWN, KING STON , MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA,T GUATEMALA CITY, PANAMA CITY, SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO, ROGOTA.T

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--T

NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTOS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.T

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2T

#6389
NW 50953 DocId:32291061 Page 5


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)