# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/22/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10319
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-117262-25, 24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, PA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 08/18/1965
PAGES: 7
SUBJECTS: SBE, REL, WINNER, MIRIAM FINKELMAN, AKA, PERSONAL
HISTORY AND BKG
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC 2 MEMO, LHM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

# Memorandum

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: WBSAC, CINCINNATI (105-3048)(C)

SUBJECT: MYRIAM FINKELMAN Y-WINER
IS - CUBA
(00: Cincinnati)

DATE: 10/6/65

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT *EXCEPT BRACKETS*
MKH 2-6-98

Re Legat, Paris, letter to Bureau 8/18/65.

Enclosed for Bureau are nine copies of letterhead memorandum with accompanying evaluation memo concerning captioned matter. It is classified Confidential because of the source from which the information emanated.

The source is identified as Liaison Section, [CIA] American Embassy, Madrid, Spain. Cincinnati is closing its case since subject is in Spain, has never been to the U. S., and there is no reason to believe she will come to this country within the near future.

2-Bureau (Enc. 9) (RM)
1-Cincinnati

RFM:blb
(3)

1/14/96
Classified by
Declassify on: OADR SFK

REC-43

105-117262-25

1 OCT 7 1965

cc: Miami-mib
4/26/66 you/ed
Copy to: CIA/STATE/RAO
ONI/OSI/ACSI
By routing slip for info.
Date: 10/15/65 by

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 50953 DocId:32307179 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

RE: MYRIAM FINKELMAN Y WINER

Sam Benton 1800 SOUTH TREASURE DRIVE
Miami Beach Brother - same as above

Francis Lyons Sister - 14 Walton Street, Portland, MAINE

Salomon Finkelman Brother - 3105 SW 79th Avenue,
Miami, Florida

Clara Delaster Sister - Miami, Florida

Julie Abramson Niece - 57 State Road, Portland,
Maine

According to Dr. Manuel Cortina, who was formerly acquainted with Winer in Santa Clara, she is currently Director of English Language at the Mangold Institute in Madrid. He has no information concerning her present address, however, he said she is believed to be living with an unidentified Cuban exile who was a professor in Las Villas. According to the knowledge of the source, they are not married. The source could not furnish any additional information concerning Winer's activities and stated there is no indication she will leave Spain and come to the United States.

[Figure] Text in the rectangular box: THIS IS LOANED TO YOU BY THE FBI, AND NEITHER IT NOR ITS, CONTENTS ARE TO BE DISTRIBUTED OUTSIDE THE AGENCY TO WHICH LOANED.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# UNITED STATES GO RNMENT

Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM : LEGAT, PARIS (105-3551) (RUC)

SUBJECT: MIRIAM FINKELMAN WINNER
IS - CUBA
(OO - Cincinnati)

DATE: 8/18/65

Re Cincinnati letter to Bureau 6/29/65.

There are enclosed for the Bureau and Cincinnati each one copy of a memorandum dated 8/9/65 prepared by the Liaison Section (CIA)[^9] American Embassy, Madrid, Spain, containing background information regarding the captioned subject.

It appears that the subject is presently residing in Madrid and is employed as the Director of English Language at the Mangold Institute in Madrid[^4]

The Consular Section has no record of an application for a United States visa from the subject. We have requested that they advise us in the event a visa application is received.

Bureau (Encs. - 2) ENCLOSURE
(1 - Liaison Section)
(1 - Cincinnati, 105-3048)
1 - [Paris]
NWP:eim
(5)

[^9]: CIA
[^4]: (u)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Consular Section

FROM: Liaison Section

SUBJECT: Miriam Finkleman WINNER (or WINER)

9 August 1965

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS

According to usually reliable Cuban exile sources in Madrid, the Subject SLD/ISR was born in Poland on 5 February 1922; she became a Cuban citizen in 1945. Subject arrived in Madrid, Spain, on 12 May 1963, bearing Cuban passport #34059 issued on 24 July 1956. Her last known address in Cuba was Ronda 17, Apt. 18, Habana.

The following is Subject's educational history:

1930 to 1936 - Primary school at Ludwipol, Poland

1938 to 1942 - High school-Instituto Marianao, Habana

1942 to 1947 - University of Habana (degree in Philosophy and Letters)

1958 - University of Columbia, New York (summer school studying German literature).

From 1956 to 1961, Subject was a professor of literature and languages at the Central University in Santa Clara, Las Villas. She held the same position from 1961 to 1962 at the University of Habana. She reportedly speaks English, German and Spanish fluently.

On arrival in Madrid in 1963, Subject listed the following members of her immediate family:

Ans Winner - mother - 1800 S. Treasure Drive, Miami Beach, Florida

Sam/Benton - brother - same as above

Francis Lyons - sister - 14 Walton Street, Portland, Maine

Salomon Finkelman - brother - 3105 SW 79th Avenue, Miami, Florida

Clara Pelaster - sister - Miami, Florida

Julie Abramson - niece - 57 State Road, Portland, Maine.

According to Manuel Cortina, who was formerly acquainted with Subject in Santa Clara, the Subject is currently the Director of English Language at the Mangold Institute in Madrid. He has no information concerning her present address, however, he said Subject is believed to be living with an unidentified Cuban exile who was a professor in Las Villas; to Source's knowledge, they are not married. Source has no additional information concerning Subject's current activities.

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

ENCLOSURE

CONFIDENTIAL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)