# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 3/25/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10181-10009
RECORD SERIES : LO
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-358-42

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 00/00/0000
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: SEE FBI 62-109060-3385
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1994
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

AIRTEL

TO DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

FROM LEGAT, LONDON (62-358) (RUC)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY 11/22/63,
DALLAS, TEXAS
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

On 6/22/64 Mr. R. E. CARTER, CIA, London[^7] on a highly confidential basis, furnished the following information which comes from a tisur on the Cuban Embassy, London, operated by British Security Service, MI-5 and British Secret Intelligence Service, MI-6. This conversation occurred on 5/8/64 and was between MARIO RIVA PATTERSON, Counselor, Cuban Embassy, London and an unidentified male visitor, possibly a Colombian. The conversation was in Spanish and indistinct at times[^5]. Information is as follows:

"The visitor after a question half of which is not heard asks if in the case of the assassination of KENNEDY II (?) FOSTER (ph and indistinct) was ever in Cuba. RIVA replies in the negative. He says that this man applied for a visa to go to Cuba at the Consulate in Tampico. He was refused a visa. Had he been to Cuba he would have had his passport."

VISITOR: "A typical F.B.I. job."

RIVA: "A thing (una cosa) of the Imperialists - to kill him in the end - really disgusting -"

It is possible that the individual referred to above as FOSTER may have been OSWALD. Above furnished for the Bureau's information.

3 - Bureau

1 - Liaison (sent direct)

1- London

CWB:rn

[^5]

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSFIED EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)