124-10371-10015 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 4/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10371-10015
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-B

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NIS
FROM: NIS
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 07/18/1978
'PAGES: 61
SUBJECTS: HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, THIRD AGENCY CLEARANCE REQUESTS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1999
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, INDEX, S/S, LET, ENV, REPORTS, RAP SHEET, LHM, MEMO, NOTES, DESPATCH, A/T, TELEGRAM, DATA REPORT, AIRGRAM

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32319484 Page 1
51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CENTAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, 9 SEP 1974
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION: Intelligence Division

SUBJECT: Travel to Florida of an agent for the Soviets
in Bogota to report on Cuban Exile Activities

1. Reference is made to our CIR-316/00990-74 dated 17 April 1974 and to your reply of 11 July 1974.

2. Carlos Miguel KASSEL (also known as GACEL) Castro was in Miami, Florida from 11 August to 29 August 1974.

3. KASSEL natural cover for his stay in Miami and contacts with Cuban exiles was that of "Asistente Internacional" to the Union de Trabajadores de Colombia (UTC) and "Jefe de Redaccion" of "Justicia Social" published by the UTC in Bogota. Since the UTC is sympathetic to and supports some Cuban exile groups, KASSEL feels his visit to and expenses in Miami can be fully justified within the context of his functions as a UTC official.

4. The following were KASSEL's main contacts in the Miami area:

A. Ignacio LEDON Iglesias, former Miami area committee Secretary for Propaganda of the Partido Revolucionario del Pueblo (PRP), left-winger, friend of Mario RIVADULLA (see below)

B. Mario RIVADULLA, PRP official and radio personality in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. RIVADULLA arrived in Miami from Santo Domingo on 14 August.

CIRA-0500-74
Classified by 061393. Exempt from General Declassification Schedule of EO. 11652 Exemption Category 5B(2). Impossible to determine date of automatic declassification.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
SENSITIVE

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

C. Ramiro de LA FE, brother of Ernesto de LA FE who had been recently released from jail in Cuba.

D. Rolando MASFERRER, Editor of "Libertad."

E. Alberto DIAZ Masvidal, Editor of "Miami Extra."

F. Max LESNIK, Editor of "Replica."

G. Vicente RUBIERA, leader of Telephone Workers Trade Union in Miami.

H. Santiago REY Pernas, former Cuban Minister of Interior.

I. Alberto del RIO Chaviano, former Brig. General in the Cuban Army.

5. Following are highlights of [KASSEL]'s report for our representative who met him in Miami:

A. The Partido Revolucionario del Pueblo (PRP) has ceased to exist for all practical purposes. According to Ignacio LEDON, responsibility for the disintegration of the PRP falls on its leader Antonio SANTIAGO, whom [KASSEL] describes as a "farsante."

B. Mario RIVADULLA, a member of the PRP Executive Committee who now lives in Santo Domingo, told [KASSEL] that it is impossible to organize a political movement in exile which would be capable of influencing in any way the development of events in Cuba. RIVADULLA now believes that there is no alternative but to await a spontaneous change of events in Cuba and a possible overthrow or assassination of Castro by the military.

C. [KASSEL] attended a meeting of about 15 persons on 16 August presided over by Rolando MASFERRER, Director of the weekly "Libertad." MASFERRER told the participants that they should begin firing practice on a Florida farm to prepare themselves for action against Cuba before November, because he (MASFERRER) is sure that Castro will be overthrown by that time. MASFERRER pointed out that U.S. Security and

SECRET
SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

Intelligence Services are aware of his plans and that he has no difficulty in their implementation. Participants at the meeting were then asked to contribute funds for the purchase of weapons; the total cash raised exceeded $1,000.00. [KASSEL]^(5) commented that it is his impression that the funds raised were intended for MASFERRER's personal use rather than the purchase of weapons.

D. [KASSEL]^(5) discussed with Ramiro de LA FE the possibility of founding a conspiratorial and secret political movement to create a mechanism of penetrating Cuba for the purpose of contributing to conditions which would result in a military coup against Castro. The movement would be headed "in absentia" by Ernesto de LA FE, who had been released from prison in Cuba two months ago. The decision to launch this movement was made on 25 August in the apartment of Ramiro de LA FE. Present at that time, in addition to [KASSEL] and Ramiro de LA FE, were Armando MEDINA, Manuel CAVEDAS and Miguel A. ZERQUEIRA (Cubans) and Juan LOPEZ (naturalized American). The new movement was named Movimiento Independente Radical de Cuba (MIRC) and Ramiro de LA FE was named its temporary leader until such time as Ernesto de LA FE can leave Cuba. The MIRC will seek contact with Cuban armed forces to launch a coup against Castro and it will also seek contact with anti-Communist groups in Brazil and with the government of Chile. Ramiro de LA FE claimed already to have contact with Patricia-BERDUGO, a Chilean supposedly working for the Chilean Intelligence Service in Miami. During the meeting, Armando MEDINA said that he had once worked for CIA and that he participated in an attack on a Spanish merchant vessel which was mistaken for the Sierra Maestra of the Cuban Merchant Fleet. [KASSEL]^(5) was named the Editor of the MIRC Manifesto which will be published in the Latin American press on 10 October.

E. [KASSEL]^(5) met with Alberto DIAZ Masvidal, Editor-in-Chief of "Miami Extra," and offered his services as an unpaid contributor of articles from Bogota. The offer was accepted.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

6. KASSEL's draft report to his Soviet contact in Bogota is a single-spaced nine-page paper entitled "Composicion Politica de la Emigracion Cubana en Miami, Florida." It covers those groups with which KASSEL has become most familiar: the PRP, the MIRC, Alfa 66, and several other minor groups. Following are highlights of that report[^5]

A. In response to a specific requirement from KASSEL's Soviet 'contact to determine if U.S.. Government agencies, including specifically the CIA, support any of these groups, KASSEL makes emphatically clear in his report that none of the exile groups have the support of the U.S. Government, although some groups falsely claim to have such support. He points out that the U.S. Government not only ignores the political exiles, but places high priority on its relations with the USSR and is "disposed" to lift the blockade of Cuba and reestablish relations with Havana. In connection with the latter point, KASSEL reports on his interview with Dr. Alberto DIAZ Masvidal, Director of the Spanish edition of Miami Herald, who told KASSEL that reestablishment of U.S. - Cuban relations is now imminent[^5]

B. Regarding on-island operations of Cuban exile groups, KASSEL concludes that none of them have any operational contacts in Cuba.

C. Regarding terrorism, KASSEL reports that Dr. Orlando BOSCH, a fugitive from the U.S. who now lives in Venezuela under an assumed identity, and Antonio VECIANA, a founding member of the PRP who is now in prison, have a plan of attack against Cuban embassies and consulates and against Soviet Bloc missions in Latin America, to be put into effect when Venezuela, Costa Rica, and other unidentified countries reestablish relations with Cuba. He also singles out Jose de Jesus QINQAUMA, a Cuban political gangster who last year planned an attack against a Soviet family in Venezuela, and the Frente Unido de Liberacion, which was formed this month in Miami and which announced the launching of a terrorist campaign against Cuban and Soviet Bloc diplomatic installations in the entire Western Hemisphere.

[^5]: (s)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET
SENSITIVE

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

7. If you wish, we will forward to you copies of [KASSEL]'s reports to our representative (paragraph 5 above) and to his Soviet contact in Bogota (paragraph 6 above).

8. We shall advise you if [KASSEL] visits Miami again on a mission for his Soviet contact in Bogota. If and when he does, we shall request that a Miami representative of the Bureau participate in our representative's meetings with [KASSEL] as the subject matter of [KASSEL]'s reporting is of direct interest to the Bureau.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

[Herbert W. Nat] (s)
David A. Phillips


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)