124-10276-10400 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# SECRET

ADDENDUM: J. B. ADAMS 3/31/75 JBA:ams

On 3/28/75 Mr. Wannall and I met with Mr. Buchen and Mr. Hills at the White House. The purpose of the meeting was to review the role of The White House in coordinating the responses of the various intelligence agencies to the Senate Committee to insure that there was uniformity in complying with Committee requests in that any restrictions on the furnishing of information were uniform.

It was determined that there is a unanimity of opinion that access to raw files would not be granted Committee members or staff as a matter of practice, although it is not inconceivable that some particular horrendous event might arise which is of such significance that access to the files on that matter might be granted to the Committee Chairman or a select number of Senators.

We discussed items which we felt were particularly sensitive such as identities of informants, sources and cooperative citizens as well as information received from foreign sources. The sensitivity of specific details on confidential expenditures was pointed out although we had no objection to discussing or making available the gross figures.

We discussed the various means of electronic exploitation in the foreign intelligence field including the Orkid program and similar programs, electronic wiretaps, microphones, Telex, and electronic penetration of communications equipment. We pointed out that there were varying degrees of sensitivity involved and each type of surveillance would have to be individually considered as to the degree of disclosure which could be made to the Committee.

We briefly discussed activities which had previously taken place yet which might be subject of current interest because of newspaper publicity and allegations. We were reminded on more than one occasion that it was absolutely imperative that the White House not be surprised without being forewarned of any earthshaking incidents which might come to light. In this context, we mentioned the Anagram program, the various mail and pouch intercepts, the Karot and related cases, surreptitious entries in connection with CP, Klan and such investigations.

Cointelpro was mentioned as well as the Chilean project which was a joint FBI-CIA microphone penetration of the Chilean Embassy in July, 1971. Mr. Buchen inquired about exploitation of unavailable Government records and we mentioned Bureau Source 4, Social Security records, as an example.

# SECRET

- 6 -


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)