2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/16/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90138-10073
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 64-211-210-830

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 11/21/1960
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
SOVIET EMBASSY HAVANA, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

64-211-210

CLASSI
REC- 88 DECLAS

Date: November 21, 1960

To: Director
Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Mr. S. H. Morton
Acting Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject: SOVIET EMBASSY
HAVANA, CUBA
INTERNAL SECURITY - R - CUBA

We have received information that a Soviet official in the United States has ordered ten safes from the Mosler Safe Company for shipment to the Soviet Embassy Havana, Cuba. They are to be shipped by Export Order Number E 12344, but the exact shipment date is unknown.

The safes are identified as follows:

| Model Number | Serial Number | Combination | Dial Key Number |
| ------------ | ------------- | ----------- | --------------- |
| 2016CL       | 14387-11      | 5-70-40     | H-669B          |
| 2016CL       | 14387-81      | 5-70-40     | H-602B          |
| 2016CL       | 14387-55      | 5-70-40     | H-7943          |
| 3016CL       | 14155-54      | 5-70-40     | H-660B          |
| 3016CL       | 14155-19      | 5-70-40     | H-667B          |
| 3016CL       | 14213-13      | 5-70-40     | H-732B          |
| 3016CL       | 14213-60      | 5-70-40     | H-784B          |
| 4216CL       | 13905-39      | 5-70-40     | H-749B          |
| 4216CL       | 13905-29      | 5-70-40     | H-800B          |
| 4833CL       | 14483-21      | 31-75-26    | H-679B          |

The model numbers designate the inside dimensions of the safes; for example, Model Number 2016CL has inside dimensions of twenty inches by sixteen inches. Each safe is

RAM: jwh

(SEE NOTE PAGE 2)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

COPIES MADE, DATE........BY
RE
Director
FOR REVIEW AT FORG AND/OR DELIVERY
Central Intelligence Agency
EQUIP F. 62-117290)
equipped with a key locking dial and each has two inside compartments.

Enclosed for the Central Intelligence Agency are a set of dial keys, appropriately labeled, and a set of keys for the inside compartments of the safes.

Information concerning the existence of this material should be handled on a need-to-know basis. It is requested that no further dissemination of this information be made without prior clearance from this Bureau.

Enclosures - 18

1 - Mr. John W. Hanes
Administrator
Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs
Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.

NOTE:

Classified "Secret" since nature of information requires that handling be limited and since disclosure could seriously jeopardize a most delicate source. Information concerning a purchase of the safes was developed by Washington Field and the keys and combinations were obtained by Cincinnati from an established source at the company's factory. The set of keys for the inside compartments consists of total of 8 keys and they apparently are interchangeable to some extent.

- 2 -

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId: 32337804 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)