# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10271-10303

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-281

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CREGAR

TO: WANNALL

TITLE:

DATE: 06/20/1975

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT: CC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 11/06/1998

UPDATE DATE:

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO.27
5010-106
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT SECRET

# Memorandum

TO : Mr. W. R. Wannall

FROM : W. Cregar

SUBJECT : SENSTUDY HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE IN DIA INFORMATION

PURPOSE: IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS
info is classified
For FOE
DATE: 6/20/75
ORIGINAL ONLY

To advise that Senate Select Committee (SSC) has been
given access to a CIA "Secret" document prepared in May, 1973,
containing information concerning questionable activities
in which CIA has engaged, a number of which activities involve
the FBI and which are the subject matter of current SSC
inquiries of this Bureau.

## DETAILS:

On 6/20/75, through prior arrangement, Major Perry
Miles, USMC, Intelligence Community Staff, upon instruction
from John Clarke, Associate Deputy to Director of Central
Intelligence for the Intelligence Community, appeared at
Headquarters for the purpose of briefing Intelligence Division
personnel concerning possible problems which may have arisen
in connection with captioned matter. Present at the briefing,
in addition to yourself and me, were the following personnel
familiar with CIA and Senstudy matters: Special Agents
Leon F. Schwartz, John P. Thomas, Seymor F. Phillips, Fred J.
Cassidy,*and Thomas J. McNiff.

Major Miles brought with him a 693-page document,
classified "Secret", containing information concerning ques-
tionable activities in which CIA had engaged, which document
was prepared in May, 1973, by CIA under the direction of then
CIA Director James R. Schlesinger. This document consisted
of numerous memoranda relating to a wide variety of operations
in which CIA had engaged. Sometime after its compilation,
date unknown, the document was turned over to the Justice
Department for review to determine.

62-116395

TJM:1hb

SECRET

Classified by
Exempt from GDS Categories 2 and 3
Date of Declassification Indefinite

*Elmer W. Larson, Jr.

NW 50953 DocId:32300614 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

ramifications, and the Department still has a copy in its possession.* Major Miles advised that the White House is in possession of a copy of this document and it was his impression that Mr. James A. Wilderotter, Associate Counsel to the President, is aware of its existence. He also advised that members of the SSC, with the knowledge of CIA Director Colby, have had access to this document if not a copy of same in their possession. Major Miles, upon instruction of John Clarke, is visiting the various members of the intelligence community mentioned by CIA in the document for the purpose of briefing them concerning its existence and those portions which may pertain to those agencies. He indicated that he had the previous day briefed General Allen, Director of National Security Agency (NSA), and Mr. Benson Buffham, Deputy Director. From the document which Major Miles kept in his possession at all times, he cited numerous pages which made reference to the FBI. The following items which are deemed pertinent for mention at this time and worthy oferesearchcare;

Page 23 - Information concerning incarceration by CIA of Soviet defector for an extended period in early 1960. In mid-1960, this defector was turned over to, and cooperated with, the FBI. It is believed this reference refers to Soviet defector, Yuri Nosenko.

Pages 70 and 77 - Information concerning use of CIA funds in the amount of $2,700,000 to acquire real estate and technical equipment in late 1971 for use of the FBI in Washington, D. C. This undoubtedly refers to the KORSAJ Program with which the Director is familiar.

Page 111 - Information concerning arrangements for purchase of audio equipment from a legitimate electronics firm through a CIA proprietary company, ostensively for the purpose of circumventing Federal statutes against such

SECRET CONTINUED - OVER

* according to Major Miles.

NW 50953 DocId:32300614 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

SECRET

purchases. In October, 1971, as a result of Bureau
inquiry at the above electronics firm, the Bureau was
referred to the Department of Justice, which indicated
it was aware of the operation and requested no additional
investigation.'

Pages 140-142 - A series of five code words describing CIA's
clandestine operations, mostly electronic in nature,
which were apparently being conducted in coordination
with the FBI. One of the code words cited was the
above-mentioned FORKID Program Other code words mentioned
were (MOHAWK, UNION, ROSE) and (WU GRAVEL, significance of
which is unknown at this time.

Pages 221-222 - Makes mention of seven electronic penetration
operations wherein the CIA supported the FBI by supplying
electronic equipment. It is believed some of these
operations refer to this Bureau's penetration of the
Chilean Embassy and our coverage of People's Republic of
China establishments in this country.

Page 234 - Information concerning CIA refusal of FBI request
to process photographic imagery of a suspect in a bank
robbery case.

Page 329 - Information concerning Project SALVAGE where, in
1967 at the request of a high Bureau official, the Office
of Security of CIA paid rent on and maintained custodianship
of a plant in New York City directed against the
United Nations. In December, 1967, the assets of this
operation allegedly were turned over to the FBI.

Page 334 - Information concerning 1971-73 electronic penetration
of Chilean Embassy initiated by the FBI at the request of
the CIA, which matter is the subject of a current inquiry
of this Bureau from SSC.

SECRET

- 3 -

CONTINUED OVER

NW 50953 DocId:32300614 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

SECRET

Page 361 - Information contained in CIA report relating to a
May, 1972, breakin in the Chilean Embassy, which report (SJ
stated that no investigation was being conducted by the
FBI in view of lack of jurisdiction.

Pages 457-458 - Information concerning CIA counterintelligence
operation including forcible entry and removal of
documents in 1962 against an unnamed foreign establishment
in the United States. Top United States officials,
including President Kennedy, were briefed concerning
this operation. Then Attorney General Robert Kennedy
after being briefed stated the operation was not to be
called to the attention of the FBI unless FBI first
initiated inquiry. It is to be noted former Bureau
Liaison officer Sam Papich was queried concerning this
matter in recent interview by SSC representatives.

Page 459 - Information concerning controversy between former
CIA Director McCone and Bureau official Mr. Belmont
regarding Bureau's opposition to CIA recommendation that
there be an extensive broadening of counterintelligence
activities against diplomatic establishments in this
country.

OBSERVATIONS:

Contact this date with Department officials elicited
that four Department attorneys, including K. William O'Connor,
Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, Office of
Deputy Attorney General, have reviewed the above 693-page
document and have been furnished additional sanitized documents
of interest from a prosecutive standpoint.

From the above, it is obvious that this Bureau in
order to be in a position to knowledgeably and accurately
reply to SSC inquiries and to fully identify operations listed
above, should first obtain a copy of the above 693-page

SECRET - 4 - CONTINUED - OVER

NW 50953 DocId:32300614 Page 5


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)