# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 6/5/2015

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10285-10254

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 03/23/1967

PAGES: 10

SUBJECTS: [Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC LHM, MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

airtel

# CONFIDENTIAL

SECRED

4/3/67

1 - Mr. DeBuck

To:
SAC, Miami (134-1198)(3)
REC 54
From:
Director, FBI (134-14264)

DOLPHIN(S)
EX 106
IS - CU

Reurairtel and LHM both dated 3/23/67.

You are authorized to have informant pass to his
Cuban principal the information set forth in reLHM.

HLD:brr
(4)

NOTE:

Clearance for passage was obtained by Liaison Section(5)

3/30/67.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/GOL
DECLASSY ON: 25X(6)
(JAC) 2/4/98

MAILED 19
MAR 3 1 1967
COMM-FBI

TELETYPE UNIT

APR 7 1967
MAIL ROOM

# CONFIDENTIAL

SECRED

NW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

CONFIDENTIAL

FBI

Date: March 23, 1967

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL AIR MAIL

Via

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (134-14264) (S)

FROM: SAC, MIAMI (134-1198) (P)

RE: DOLPHIN IS - CUBA (S)

ReMiamilet 2/20/67.

In accordance with instructions concerning the handling of double agents, there are attached hereto the original and 9 copies of a letterhead memorandum. The letterhead memorandum has been classified "SECRET," in order to protect the identity of a double agent of continuing value to the U.S.(S)

As set forth in referenced letter, DOLPHIN'S principal requested him to furnish information on a monthly basis concerning anti-CASTRO activities in the U.S.

In view of this, the Miami Office will have the informant prepare and the Miami Office will forward a letter containing the information set out in the attached letterhead memorandum. This information will be prepared in secret writing.(S)

The Bureau is requested to advise whether or not DOLPHIN will be authorized to make the information available to his Cuban principal on April 7, 1967.(S)

3 - Bureau (Encl. - 10) (AM - RM)

1 - Miami

JEM:ems

(4)

ec 61APR1967

Approved: Special Agent in Charge CONFIDENTIAL M Per

NW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# CONFIDENTIAL

MAR 23 1967

CLASSIFIED BY 51d68 sl/mde
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

SECRET

"FISHFACE"(S)

The above code name has been assigned to a Cuban alien whose activities are being directed(s) against a Cuban intelligence service. He was requested by his Cuban principal to obtain information relating to anti-Castro activities in the United States

Through his contacts with anti-Castro individuals in Miami, the following information was obtained:

A meeting of anti-Castro leaders was held recently at the home of Palayo Garcia. Manuel Fernandez, former Secretary of Labor-in-Cuba, acted as chairman, and the meeting was attended by former Castro officials, such as Manuel Urrutia, Manuel Ray, Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas, Rufo Lopez Fresquet, Danilo Mesa, Elena Mederos, and Efreu Gonzalez.

At the meeting, Fernandez suggested that a committee be formed and efforts made to have the committee travel to Cuba for a conference with Cuban officials, in order to discuss the release of political prisoners. It was believed that the discussion concerning political prisoners could be expanded to include a discussion of differences between Cuba and the United States. Those in attendance agreed that such a discussion would be timely, inasmuch as it appears that Fidel Castro is not completely satisfied with Cuba's relations with the Soviet Union. If the discussion of the relations between Cuba and the United States should prove productive such information

Approved By USER

SECRET

GROUP

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 4

ENCLOSURE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRE CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

could then be communicated by the committee to the United States Government, in a hope of bringing about a state of coexistence between Cuba and the United States)

It is requested that clearance be granted(s) for the Cuban alien) to furnish this data to his Cuban principal(s)

This information should not be disseminated.

- 2*

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# CONFIDENTIAL

MAR 2 3 1957

SECRET

"FISHFACE"(s)

Classified by SPB

Declassify on: OADR 4/30/84

The above code name has been assigned to a Cuban alien whose activities are being directed(s) against a Cuban intelligence service(s). He was requested by his Cuban principal to obtain information relating to anti-Castro activities in the United States.

Through his contacts with anti-Castro individuals in Miami, the following information was obtained:

A meeting of anti-Castro leaders was held recently at the home of Palayo Garcia. Manuel Fernandez, former Secretary of Labor in Cuba, acted as chairman, and the meeting was attended by former Castro officials, such as Manuel Urrutia, Manuel Ray, Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas, Rufo Lopez Fresquet, Danilo Mesa, Elena Mederos, and Efreu Gonzalez.

At the meeting, Fernandez suggested that a committee be formed and efforts made to have the committee travel to Cuba for a conference with Cuban officials, in order to discuss the release of political prisoners. It was believed that the discussion concerning political prisoners could be expanded to include a discussion of differences between Cuba and the United States. Those in attendance agreed that such a discussion would be timely, inasmuch as it appears that Fidel Castro is not completely satisfied with Cuba's relations with the Soviet Union. If the discussion of the relations between Cuba and the United States should prove productive, such information

SECRET

GROUP I

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

could then be communicated by the committee to the United States Government, in a hope of bringing about a state of coexistence between Cuba and the United States

It is requested that clearance be granted for the Cuban alien to furnish this data to his Cuban principal

This information should not be disseminated.

- 2* -

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

MAR 2 3 1967

11/21/97
CLASSIFIED BY 5666-54/md
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (U)
(5668 SID/GCL)
(2/4/98 - JFL)

SECRET

"FISHFACE"(s

The above code name has been assigned to a Cuban alien whose activities are being directed (S) against a Cuban intelligence service(S) He was requested by his Cuban principal to obtain information relating to anti-Castro activities in the United States.

Through his contacts with anti-Castro individuals in Miami, the following information was obtained:

A meeting of anti-Castro leaders was held recently at the home of Palayo Garcia. Manuel Fernandez, former Secretary of Labor in Cuba, acted as chairman, and the meeting was attended by former Castro officials, such as Manuel Urrutia, Manuel Ray, Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas, Rufo Lopez Fresquet, Danilo Mesa, Elena Mederos, and Efreu Gonzalez.

At the meeting, Fernandez suggested that a committee be formed and efforts made to have the committee travel to Cuba for a conference with Cuban officials, in order to discuss the release of political prisoners. It was believed that the discussion concerning political prisoners could be expanded to include a discussion of differences between Cuba and the United States. Those in attendance agreed that such a discussion would be timely, inasmuch as it appears that Fidel Castro is not completely satisfied with Cuba's relations with the Soviet Union. If the discussion of the relations between Cuba and the United States should prove productive, such information

SECRET

GROUP I

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

CAGONTENTIAL O

SECRET

Kould then be communicated by the committee to the United States Government, in a hope of bringing about a state of coexistence between Cuba and the United States (U)

It is requested that clearance be granted (6) for the Cuban alien to furnish this data to his Cuban principal(s)
S

This information should not be disseminated.

- 2* -

SECRET

CONEDENTIAL

NW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

CONFIDENTIAL

MAR 23 1967

11/21/92
CLASSIFIED BY 5668-520/pide
DECLASSIFY ON: OADR

SECRET
Classified by S08 BIT/ged
Declassify on: OADR 4/30/84

[FISHFACE] (S)

The above code name has been assigned to a Cuban alien whose activities are being directed (S) against a Cuban intelligence service (S). He was requested by his Cuban principal to obtain information relating to anti-Castro activities in the United States.

Through his contacts with anti-Castro individuals in Miami, the following information was obtained:

A meeting of anti-Castro leaders was held recently at the home of Palayo Garcia. Manuel Fernandez, former Secretary of Labor in Cuba, acted as chairman, and the meeting was attended by former Castro officials, such as Manuel Urrutia, Manuel Ray, Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas, Rufo Lopez Fresquet, Danilo Mesa, Elena Mederos, and Efreu Gonzalez.

At the meeting, Fernandez suggested that a committee be formed and efforts made to have the committee travel to Cuba for a conference with Cuban officials, in order to discuss the release of political prisoners. It was believed that the discussion concerning political prisoners could be expanded to include a discussion of differences between Cuba and the United States. Those in attendance agreed that such a discussion would be timely, inasmuch as it appears that Fidel Castro is not completely satisfied with Cuba's relations with the Soviet Union. If the discussion of the relations between Cuba and the United States should prove productive, such information,

SECRET

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

could then be communicated by the committee to the United States Government, in a hope of bringing about a state of coexistence between Cuba and the United States.

It is requested that clearance be granted for the Cuban alien to furnish this data to his Cuban principal.

This information should not be disseminated.

- 2 *
  SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL
NW 50953 DocId:32304242 Page 11


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)