# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 4/16/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10230

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-30972-68

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: NO

TITLE:

DATE: 09/23/1960

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL PETROS MOUTSOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NW 50953 DocId:32337464 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

1 - Mr. Nasca

9/23/60

SAC, New Orleans

Director, FBI 5(105-30972)-68

EX- 105

PETROS MOUTSOS

MISCELLANEOUS-INFORMATION CONCERNING
(NATIONALITIES INTELLIGENCE)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSA FOR, OR
RELEASE OF INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT,
EXCEPT BRACKETS
KR 11-17-97
JM 6-23-98

The captioned individual was utilized by CIA as an informant in the communist-dominated Greek Maritime Organization.
During the past year his usefulness to CIA has practically expired, primarily because of the subject's desire to remove himself from the OENO atmosphere.

On September 13, 1960, CIA advised that the subject is currently a crew member of the SS "Radnor," which is scheduled to dock at New Orleans within the next two weeks. CIA has had clandestine meetings with Moutsos and is endeavoring to work out an arrangement whereby he can travel to Cuba and serve as a source of information. In order to arrange for such travel, it will be necessary for Moutsos to jump ship in New Orleans. This will be done with the approval of INS. CIA will then hold conferences with Moutsos and the subject will thereupon proceed to Havana (under a cover being established for him)

Prior to leaving for Havana, Moutsos will endeavor to establish contact with his wife, Angela Boyer, who has a communist background. This marriage was actually promoted in order to improve subject's position in the OENO. The subject has been separated from his wife for a lengthy period although she has indicated she desires to live with the subject again. CIA hopes that a resumption of relations between the two will help Moutsos in establishing worthwhile contacts in communist circles in Cuba.

This is being furnished for your information and under no circumstances should any of this data be furnished to anyone outside the Bureau. Any pertinent information received concerning the subject should, of course, be promptly furnished to the Bureau.

1 - New York (105-15613)
1 - Baltimore (134-571)

Tolson
Mohr
Parsons 1 - 100-398547 (Angela Boyer)
Belmont
Callahan
DeLoach
Malone
McGuire
VHN:wmt:kac
Rosen
Tamm
Trotter
W.C. Sullivan
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

SEP 2 9 1960

MAILED 25
SEP 2 3 1960
COMM-FBI

MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

12-10-97
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/KSP
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1
(JFK)

8/9/93
Classified by 9603rdd/gel
Declassify on: MDR 211,326
(5648 SLO/Gdl-3/29/95-JFK)

NW 50953 DocId:32337464 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)