2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System Date: 4/15/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10369-10022
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-Y8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: JONES
TO: WICK
TITLE:
DATE: 12/28/1966
PAGES: 322
SUBJECTS: HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD
VOLUME XII
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/23/1999
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, MEMO, A/T, TTY, LET, NOTES, LHM, PRESS RELEASES, TESTIMONY, NEWS
ARTICLES, TRANSLATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

[SECRET

SAC, WTO ((100-18032)(5)

Director, FBI (100-357510) (5)

OFFICE OF THE SOVIET MILITARY ATTACHE J(5)
IS-R; CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION

Classified by SPYBJA/GAL
Declassify on BADR12/5/84
#211,326

ReDuairtel 10/25/66 reflecting installation authorization. (4)

This letter is for information and record purposes.) (

1-Mr. Mohr
1-Mr. Sullivan
1-Mr. Callahan
1-Mr. Conrad

11/22/66

1-Mr. Baker
1-Mr. Allen

In response to your request, a new closed-circuit television system was recently installed in connection with the captioned case. The system consists of a remotely controlled video camera, zoom lens and pan-tilt head mounted in a special disguise. A 17-inch monitor is located nearby and provides a view of the pertinent scene. Monitor personnel can remotely change the focal length, focus, aperture and field of view of the lens. Certain compensation for changing light conditions can also be made at the monitoring site. (5)

Attached is a technical addendum listing the equipment installed together with special circuit and cable data to assist WFO personnel in the maintenance of the equipment. Appropriate inventory changes should be made

1-[80-829](5)

CTA:ev
(10)

ENCLOSURE

Tolson
DeLoach
Mohr
Wick
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
losen
illivan
e. Room
nes
ly

Enclosures (2)

REC- 47 (5)

53 DEC 9 1966

DEC5 19661d

19 NOV 30 1966

MAIL ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

NW 50953 DocId:32319388 Page 2

SECRET

RECORDE
COPY FEED IN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.

S. J. Papich

JOACHIM JOESTEN
INTERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA

On 8/19/66, Cal Tenney, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised that the Swiss Federal Police received a letter from the subject, postmarked Milan, Italy, on 8/13/66, which read as follows:

"The final accounting with the Johnson gang is imminent. Each of you who continues to partake in the actions of the Johnson gang or their German officials, the Gehlen gang, or those who disrupt the plans of American patriots against the usurper regime, will shortly pay with their lives. Be it well understood, Greetings."

Tenney advised that this information has been disseminated by CIA to the White House and Secret Service.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention of the Soviet Section.

Mr. Branigan

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

SJP:rab
(4)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. 02/22/99
AS SANITIZED


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)