124-10300-10024 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/5/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10300-10024
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-162207-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 07/10/1967
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS: [Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IB; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32309658 Page 1

12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-34)

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES
AND FIRED OFFICES
ADVISOR CV BOUDING
SLIP(S) OF Class
DATE 5/10/84
Transmit the following in

FBI SECRET!
Date: 7/10/67

Via AIRTEL
(Type in plaintext or code)
(Priority)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105-12062) (P)

SUBJECT: JORGE RAUL ROBLEJO LORIE
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

OO: Miami

Re Miami airtel dated 6/21/67, captioned COMITE
PRO-LIBERACION DE LOS CIEN (CPLLC) (COMMITTEE FOR THE
LIBERATION OF THE ONE HUNDRED), IS - CUBA.

On 7/5/67, SERGIO OSWALDO BETANCOURT COLLAZO,
35 West 9th Street, Apartment 4, Hialeah, Florida, telephone
887-7218, voluntarily furnished the following information:

8 - Bureau (RM)
(1 - 105-147458) (CPLLC)
(2 - Legat, Mexico) (Info.)
(1 - 105-4947) (CPLLC)
(2 - Legat, Ottawa) (Info.)
(1 - 105-3083) (CPLLC)
2 - New York (Info.) (RM)
(1 - 105-77103) (CPLLC)
2 - San Juan (Info.) (RM)
(1 - 105-9215) (CPLLC)
3 - Miami
(1 - 134-New) (Betancourt Collazo)
(1 - 105-9977) (CPLLC)

JDH:jhk
(15)

C. C. Wick

Approved:
FF/
Special Agent in Charge

NW 50953 DocId:32309658 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MM 105-12062

SECRET

BETANCOURT indicated that he had been the General Coordinator of the 30th of November anti-Castro organization in Cuba during 1959, 1960 and the first part of 1961. He arrived in the United States at Miami on June 29, 1961, via small boat. Upon his arrival in the United States, he assumed leadership of the 30th of November movement in Miami until approximately October, 1962, when he entered the U. S. Army under the Cuban recruitment program at Fort Jackson, S. C. Subsequent to this, he has been affiliated with the 30th of November movement in Chicago for approximately two years, 1963-1965, and in Miami, 1965 to date.

BETANCOURT is currently employed as a security guard for the National Patrol Detective Agency and the National Industrial Security Corporation (affiliates), 590 S. W.27th Avenue, Miami, Florida. In connection with this employment, he is a guard at the Cuban Refugee Processing Center of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) three days a week. The Processing Center is located in Buildings T-90 and T-94 which are utilized by the U. S. Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in processing, fingerprinting and photographing Cuban refugees upon their arrival in the United States. CIA under the guise of INS interviewers interrogates [^1] these arrivals at this location).

BETANCOURT related he met ROBLEJO around the first of January, 1967, when ROBLEJO reportedly returned from Mexico City where he had been attempting to seek the release of Cuban political prisoners in Cuba. He met ROBLEJO through ANGEL ESTEVEZ, a coworker of BETANCOURT at the Hotel Fontainebleau where both were employed as waiters at that time. At the request of ESTEVEZ, BETANCOURT furnished ROBLEJO a table gratis at the Frank Sinatra show at the Fontainebleau Hotel, for which ROBLEJO was apparently grateful. As a result of this, ROBLEJO sought BETANCOURT's assistance in attempting to obtain the release of political prisoners and recently BETANCOURT was made a member of the Executive Committee of the CPLLC.

In this connection, BETANCOURT accompanied ROBLEJO to San Juan, Puerto Rico, the first week of June, 1967. BETANCOURT by this time had the impression ROBLEJO was actually anti-United States and he considered ROBLEJO a "leftist-socialist." While in Puerto Rico, they met with MANOLO RAY and RUFO LOPEZ FRESQUET. ROBLEJO discussed the possibility of RAY and LOPEZ FRESQUET becoming active in seeking the release of Cuban political prisoners. However, no definite agreement or conclusion was reached.

[^1]: (5)

- 2 -

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32309658 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MM 105-12062

SECRET

BETANCOURT stated that on or about June 15, 1967,
he and ROBLEJO, while temporarily staying at 2930 Loiza,
Santurce, Puerto Rico, were having a general conversation and
ROBLEJO changed the topic to BETANCOURT's current work as a
security guard at the Miami Airport where the Cuban refugees
are processed. ROBLEJO asked detailed questions concerning
the nature of the activities at this location, to which BETANCOURT
explained that Cuban refugees upon their arrival in the United
States are processed here', including having their photographs
taken, being fingerprinted, and being interrogated. ROBLEJO
asked BETANCOURT if the FBI was there, which BETANCOURT acknowl-
edged in the affirmative, and ROBLEJO asked, "What do they do
there?" BETANCOURT answered, "They investigate and clear all
of the refugees arriving from Cuba in the United States."
ROBLEJO was interested in knowing if BETANCOURT saw "those papers"
and BETANCOURT stated he had seen them. (BETANCOURT indicated
this was entirely fictitious, but since he did not trust ROBLEJO,
he felt he might be in a position to be of possible assistance
to the U. S. Government). ROBLEJO asked BETANCOURT if he could
"photograph...take a picture of the documents or the people
the FBI investigates." BETANCOURT asked ROBLEJO if he was
"crazy," stating that if he did something like that, he could
be put in the "electric chair." ROBLEJO indicated that with
the use of a small camera, this could be accomplished very
easily. Almost immediately, the topic was changed and BETANCOURT
indicated to ROBLEJO he had to leave San Juan immediately because
his child had just broken his collar bone. BETANCOURT also
indicated to ROBLEJO that his, BETANCOURT's, wife had called
and said she did not have any money in the house to buy food,
etc. At this point, ROBLEJO gave BETANCOURT a check in the
amount of $300.00, drawn on the First National Bank of Miami,
on the account of the Committee of Relatives of the One Hundred.
ROBLEJO made out this check in BETANCOURT's presence and
requested $50.00 be given to ROBLEJO's mother. Immediately,
BETANCOURT cashed the check and sent a money order to his wife,
ERMITAS RAMON ARIAS.

BETANCOURT stated ROBLEJO had given him $50.00 in
cash prior to their departure for Puerto Rico.

BETANCOURT advised he returned to Miami from Puerto
Rico on June 18, 1967, and ROBLEJO remained in San Juan until
June 28, 1967. He recalled ROBLEJO attempted to have him stay
in Puerto Rico and was "mad" at BETANCOURT for leaving early.

On June 30, 1967, ROBLEJO telephonically contacted
BETANCOURT, during which conversation ROBLEJO indicated he

- 3 -

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32309658 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MM 105-12062

SECRET

planned to go to Venezuela, Panama and Ottawa, Canada, and would see BETANCOURT upon his return. ROBLEJO is interested in obtaining a Mexican visa in order to go to Cuba to possibly converse with FIDEL CASTRO or other important leaders in the communist government of Cuba in connection with the possible release of Cuban political prisoners.

Local stops have been placed with INS in order to be notified of ROBLEJO's return to the United States.

Miami plans to locate and possibly monitor the bank account of the Committee of Relatives of the One Hundred and any other accounts where ROBLEJO is the authorized signature of an account.

The Bureau is being requested in a separate communication captioned "SERGIO OSWALDO BETANCOURT COLLAZO, aka "Ariel," PSI - CUBA," to grant authority to contact him in order to follow up in connection with ROBLEJO's request as mentioned above in the event ROBLEJO attempts to pursue this matter further.

The Bureau will be kept advised. LHM incorporating pertinent data regarding subject's activities will be promptly furnished to the Bureau.


- 4 -

SECRET
NW 50953 DocId:32309658 Page 5


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)