# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90138-10004

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 65-67173-20

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PAPICH

TO: BRENNAN

TITLE:

DATE: 10/15/1963

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

ENRIQUE GARCIA ARMENTEROS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. D. J. Brennan,

DATE: 10/15/63

FROM: Mr. S. J. Papich

SUBJECT: ENRIQUE GARCIA ARMENTEROS
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, advised the Liaison Agent that her agency finally has been able to place a man in Cuba who might be able to develop information in answer to the Bureau lead transmitted to CIA. She explained that the source's capability to be productive will depend upon his resourcefulness to get into the appropriate areas.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. Dunn
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Papich
SJP:chs
(5) Cho

![signature]

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS

![signature]

![signature]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)