# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 4/17/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10468

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89457-9

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: NY

TITLE:

DATE: 06/30/1961

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

JORGE BELIARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: AT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

1 pich
1 James

6-30-61

AIRTEL

To: SAC, New York [(134-5609)](C)
From: Director, FBI [(105-89457)]
[NY 3186-PSI](C) REC-85

CIA, by liaison, advised Bureau of desire to contact captioned [PSI] in connection with its Cuban operations.(C)
CIA of opinion[PSI] is in position to assist in the (C) establishment of courier routes between U.S. and its contacts in Cuba.(C) Contact of [PSI] by CIA being held in(C) abeyance pending Bureau's approval.

Bureau's position in this matter flexible.
We can refuse CIA authority to contact [PSI] or we can let(C) CIA operate [PSI]on its own. We can also serve as inter-(C) mediary between the [PSI] and CIA.

Promptly contact [PSI]and discreetly ascertain if he is in position and willing to assist in establishing courier routes.(C) Do not advise [PSI] of CIA's connection at(C) this time. For information, CIA believes [PSI] able to(C) establish such a system because of his employment with Cubana Airlines in New York City, and fact he is in contact with persons regularly traveling to Cuba. Furnish Bureau results of your contact with [PSI](C) In event [PSI] is in position(C) to assist in the establishment of a courier system and willing to do so, you should furnish your observations concerning [PSI]'s proposed use in this matter.(C)

FEJ:eg
(5)

NOTE: [PSI]is Station Manager of Cubana Airlines at Idlewild Airport in New York City. He has been under development by New York Office since November, 1960,(C) and has furnished data concerning operations of Cubana Airlines and personnel employed by Cubana.

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE ON PAGE TWO

![MAIL ROOM] ![TELETYPE UNIT]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

1 To SAC, w York
Re: (NY 3186-PS (C)

CONTINUANCE OF NOTE:

(C) The has made available copies of incoming and outgoing manifests of Cubana flights between New York and Havana. New York has pointed out that [PSI] has not furnished data of unusua Kvalue; but because of his position, has a good potential. CIA advised Liaison Agent Papich it would not contact [PSI] until it had received authority to do so from Bureau. Before allowing CIA to make contact with PSI, it (C) is believed it would be best for our interests to determine if [PSI] can actually assist CIA. If he is in position to (C) assist that Agency, we will then consider what stand to take in this matter.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)