# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 6/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10209

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-67406-20

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: EDWARDS, SHEFFIELD

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/09/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: PPJM, RECRUITMENT, AMERICAN CODE CLERK A/O

DIPLOMAT IN MOSCOW, KGB

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

- 12 -

Subject advised that Nina and Ed Stevens do a lot of entertaining but he had never attended any of their parties. Subject stated that he would not trust Nina Stevens as far as he could throw an elephant. Subject stated that he had no proof but believed Nina to be a Soviet informant.

Subject advised that Aline Mosby was a newspaperwoman in Schapiro's office. Mosby, during the past year, had been in the hospital on several occasions and one didn't see too much of her. Subject also advised that Mosby stuck mostly to the foreign circuit rather than the Embassy circuit. Subject stated that one of the reasons Mosby was in the hospital on one occasion was the fact that she had an abortion, according to gossip.

Subject stated that another newspaperwoman in Moscow was Priscilla Johnson. Subject advised that Johnson had the reputation of being a fairly good reporter and one whom the Soviets kept on a month to month visa basis. Subject indicated that it was highly possible the Soviets had attempted to recruit Johnson as she spent a lot of time with Soviet nationals.

Subject was queried as to whether he had ever made an unauthorized disclosure of classified information in the Soviet Union, to which he replied that he had not disclosed classified information as such. He stated that his cover, which he had used for the period in between State Department (5) assignments, was that he was a consultant of the AEC, particularly to the Joint Atomic Energy Intelligence Committee, composed of AEC, CIA, State, NSA, Joint Chiefs, and the Armed Services.(5) Subject stated that he had indicated to individuals, when questioned, that he had done economic research and analysis in the Soviet field and that he had done this ever since he had first become a State Department employee. Subject stated that among others he had discussed this with Ray Hutchins, his counter-part in the British Embassy.(5)

Subject was asked for his itinerary on his return trip to the United States. Subject stated that he had long planned to come home via the Far East and it was a well publicized plan. He stated that when he left Moscow he stayed over in Delhi for a week to see if there were any objections from Headquarters as to his itinerary. He stated that when he received no instructions to the contrary, he returned to the United States via his previously announced plans and the differences in fares being borne by him.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)