# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10213-10310

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 149-5378-17

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PETERSON. LEONARD C.

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/08/1968

PAGES: 194

SUBJECT: OBA, INTV, TRANSCRIPT OF ANONYMOUS CALL, SUSP, ARREST OF RMN, LIST OF BOMBINGS, LAB AND INDENT RPT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 05/13/1998

UPDATE DATE:

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(A)

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

MM 149-425

The following information was obtained by SA
JAMES D. HAYES:

On February 23, 1968, HARRY RANDALL CIA Covert,
Miami, (Protect), advised his office had received an
anonymous tip as follows:

RANDALL explained he did not know the origin
nor did he have any further information concerning this
tip and was endeavoring to ascertain more about this
matter, if possible.

One RICARDO MORALES has a bank account, No.
80-657-9 in the Riverside Bank, Miami, Florida. 951 SW
1st Avenue is apparently the address of an apartment which
had been utilized by Cuban Power. This account contained a
receipt for rent on an apartment which has been used by
Cuban Power. It is presumed this apartment has been used
in the nature of a safehouse.

The foregoing information was furnished to
Lieutenant HARVARD SWILLEY, Intelligence Unit, Miami
Police Department, in connection with their current
investigation of MORALES, who is currently incarcerated
in the Dade County Jail under local violation.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

Re: FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ TAMAYO;
RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE;
MANUEL PENABAZ

SA JAMES J. O'CONNOR developed the following
information from MM 1119-S on January 30, 1968

MANUEL PENABAZ has been in Miami for the past couple of weeks. On January 26, 1968, he obtained a visa at the Consulate of Venezuela in Miami for travel to the Dominican Republic. He claims this travel is in connection with land sales.

PENABAZ stated he had clipped some newspaper articles regarding recent activities of Poder Cubano and had sent them to EDUARDO FERNANDEZ who is a Cuban currently serving as an officer in the U.S. Army believed stationed in California, possibly at Fort Ord. PENABAZ claimed that EDUARDO FERNANDEZ originated the idea or at least the name of Poder Cubano and PENABAZ mentioned the idea to FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ TAMAYO and RICARDO MORALES. PENABAZ claims that TAMAYO and MORALES are involved with another group in the bombings at Miami. PENABAZ stated there was a meeting at the residence of TAMAYO in Miami during the week of January 21-27, 1968, which was attended by several Cubans from New Jersey. TAMAYO reportedly showed them arms, description not known. Also, those at the meeting allegedly smoked marijuana. PENABAZ claims ORLANDO BOSCH has nothing to do with Poder Cubano. PENABAZ indicated he would be flying to the Dominican Republic via Pan American on January 31, 1968.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

MM 149-425

SUSPECTS

ANDRES JORGE GONZALEZ GONZALEZ
aka "Bombilla"
Date of Birth: October 17, 1931
INS Number: A12 478 993

PAULINO MARIO GUTIERREZ VIDAL
Date of Birth: June 22, 1923
INS Number: A12 891 809

On January 30, 1968, HARRY RANDALL CIA Covert, Miami (Protect), furnished the following information, which he said was classified "secret." He indicated all of this information is from their source OSCAR ANGULO (Protect).

JORGE GONZALEZ, aka "Bombilla," resides at 51 N. W. 76th Avenue, Miami, telephone 226-6819. He drives a white Ford, approximately 1964 model, bearing 1968 Florida license 1-123172

On January 26, 1968, the above-mentioned source received a telephone call at his residence approximately ten AM from PAULINO GUTIERREZ, inquiring about his, Source's, health and condition as a result of an automobile accident in which the source was involved. During the course of the conversation PAULINO GUTIERREZ mentioned the Cuban Power had just put another bomb a few minutes previously to this conversation in an office which sends parcels to Cuba. No further details or information was furnished concerning this matter.

On January 28, 1968, during the afternoon JORGE GONZALEZ, aka "Bombilla," visited the source's residence. He was interested in learning the reaction and opinion of the Cuban exiles with regard to Cuban Power. He was apparently attempting to find out what comments the Cuban exiles had made and what effect the purported activities of Cuban Power had had on the Cuban colony in the Miami area.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MM 149-425

SECRET

GONZALEZ criticized FELIPE RIVERO's statements to the press indicating that it was an open sign RIVERO (6) had sold himself to the U. S. Government. (Reportedly RIVERO made a statement to the press concerning the recent bombings attributed to Cuban Power as being "acts of cowardice") GONZALEZ also critized the attitude of the Second National Front of the Escambray. (✗) (✗) (4)

GONZALEZ asked the source's wife who was (5) present at the time on January 28, 1968, if she could recognize the voice of the person who called their home (5) on January 20, 1968, at approximately 3:05 AM. Source's (5) wife informed GONZALEZ she had not been able to recognize the voice because she was half asleep at that time. She also stated she believed it was probably a joke and did not give any satisfaction to GONZALEZ, even to the point of allowing him to have any indication she actually knew who the call was from (X) (X) (5)

GONZALEZ also stated that some of the Cuban exiles in the Miami area were of the opinion ORLANDO BOSCH was the creator of Cuban Power and "author" of the bombings. (The brains behind the bombings.) (X) (X) (X)(4)

The source further advised TOMAS REGALADO, of (5) local Spanish-language radio station WFAB, Miami, told the source that the FBI had interrogated him and wanted (5) to know if the voice of the person who called WFAB was that of BOSCH (X) (✗) (5)

GONZALEZ also advised "they" wanted the source to be the first to know of the Cuban Power and the bombing (5) of the B-25 airplane at the Miami International Airport, (5) Which is the reason "they" called him at 3:05 AM January 20, 1968, 15 minutes before the actual bombing (X) (X) (X)(6)

On January 28, 1968, during the meeting with (S) GONZALEZ, the source obtained GONZALEZ' address, telephone number, and observed the license plate of the car which he (5) was driving. (✗) (✗) (6)(4)

L SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

MM 149-425

SECRET

By memorandum dated February 13, 1968, CIA,
Miami, furnished the following additional information
regarding JORGE GONZALEZ:(u)

On February 9, 1968, a contact of CIA advised
that he had, a conversation on the evening of February 7,
1968, with JORGE GONZALEZ, military chief of the
Movimiento Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria
(MIRR). GONZALEZ stated that the activities of the Cuban
Power group would continue. He said they intended to
"frighten" some members of the news media, such as NORMAN
DIAZ ARTILES and JUAN AMADOR RODRIGUEZ of Radio Station
WMIE, and SERGIO VIDAL CAYRO of Radio Station WFAB,( a)

GONZALEZ stated that they knew they were under
investigation by the FBI. He said the only evidence
against ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA during his trial for extortion
was that the threatening notes had been typed on a type-
writer to which BOSCH had access. For this reason, when
Cuban Power had something to write, they rented a type-
writer at the cost of $30.00 for the purpose. GONZALEZ
said that different persons rented typewriters from
different places in order to elude the investigative
efforts of the FBI.(W)

GONZALEZ said that Cuban Power was preparing news
releases which would be sent to the local news media that
night (February 7). According to GONZALEZ, the MIRR and
ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA were preparing "an important work
about Cuba" which would reaffirm the position of the MIRR
so that there would be no connection between the MIRR and
Cuban Power. GONZALEZ said this action would allay the
suspicions of the FBI since it would appear that the MIRR
was inactive. (8)(u)



M
SECRET
NW 50953 DocId:32294534 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

MM 149-425

SECRET

bombings which had occurred in Miami. FELIPE RIVERO,
of the CNM, commented regarding the recent bombings in Miami
that the only thing a bombing such as occurred recently in
Miami does is to take the medicine from the elderly and the
children. RIVERO further stated that when he does something
he signs his name to it. JORGE MASCANOSA, representative of
RECE, would not talk against the bombings, however, at the
same time LUIS CONTE AGERO also refused to make any comments
regarding the bombings. CONTE stated, however, that he was
against sending any packages to Cuba except medicine.

The following investigation was conducted by
SA EDWIN PETER KRIEGER:

On January 26, 29 and 30, 1968, MM 1264-C was
contacted regarding Cuban Power and the recent bombings in
the Miami area.

Informant advised that he heard that a young group
of Cubans in the age category of 18 to 20 years of age have
been actually or personally involved in the local bombings in
the Miami area. He felt that Cuban Power was using these
young individuals in that they have no fear and they crave
excitement. He further said that he heard that ORLANDO
BOSCH is the leader of the Cuban Power group. He further
stated that he believes it is this same group that is
responsible for the bombing of B25 cargo aircraft at Miami
International Airport on January 20, 1968.

Informant continued by saying that a source for
the Cubans obtaining powder for any homemade bombs could be
through Maule Industries, Miami, which handles explosive
powder and this company hires many Cuban employees.

Informant said that he does rehabilitation work
with young Cubans and Puerto Rican male individuals and
that in contact with them he would remain alert to any
additional problems that may arise, especially the bombing
matters in the Miami area.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

MM 149-425

On January 29, 1968, (MM (11025) advised SA ROBERT(C)
G. STRONG that the recent dynamiting attacks are the work of
ORLANDO BOSCH of M.I.R.R., Af they were done with TNT

On January 31, 1968, at noon, SA SAMUEL W. JONES
observed ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA at the corner of 18th Avenue
and West Flagler Street, in company with two unidentified
Cuban males. BOSCH was driving a Karmann Ghia, Volkswagen
with 1967 Alabama license 55-9211.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

MM 149-425

SECRET

RE: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA;
ANDRE'S JORGE GONZALEZ-GONZALEZ;
PAULINO MARIO GUTIERREZ VIDAL;
JORGE IGNACIO GUTIERREZ ULLA
Date of Birth: June 22, 1923
INS #: A12 891 809

On January 26, 1968, SAS JOSEPH C. BALL and ROBERT G. STRONG received information from OSCAR ANGULO REYES and (S) his wife, ANGELAS which has been recorded on FD-302s, but is classified secret at the request of CIA, Miami, since ANGULO is of high operational interest to CIA.

The information received is as follows:

Mrs. ANGELA GARCIA DE ANGULO, 2900 N. W. 92nd Street, Miami, Florida, furnished the following information:

She advised that at about 3:00 AM on January 20, 1968, she received a telephone call at her residence from an unidentified male caller who asked to speak with her husband. When told her husband was not home, the caller instructed her to tell him, "We put a bomb on the plane for Merida," after which the caller hung up. She recognized the voice of the caller as that of ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, with whom she is well acquainted.

At 6:50 AM, the same date, she received another telephone call, believed to be from the same individual as above, who again asked for her husband. She advised the caller her husband had left for the airport and inquired if this was not BOSCH calling. The caller then excitedly stated he wanted to speak to her husband and hung up without answering her question.

She advised that she has talked with ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA on numerous occasions, both personally and on' the telephone, and is thoroughly familiar with the voice of BOSCH. She stated she was certain the individual who made the above calls was BOSCH.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

MM 149-425

OSCAR ANGULO REYES, 2900 N. W. 92nd Street, Miami,
Florida, made available the following information: (*(1) Xu

On December 14, 1967, ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, prominent
Cuban exile leader who heads the Movimiento Insurreccional
de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR), advised the source
confidentially that the new Cuban exile organization called
"Cuban Power" was being created by "my men in New York City"
and indicated to the source that he would furnish more
information at a later date. (1)

On January 15, 1968, JORGE GONZALEZ, also known
as "Bombilla," one of BOSCH's Lieutenants in the MIRR and
Chief of the Military Department of the MIRR, advised the
source that he was a member of Cuban Power, whose objective
was the stopping of the sending of parcels to Cuba. He
revealed that Cuban Power was responsible for the bombings
of the Post Offices at Elizabeth, New Jersey, on December 4,
1967; New York City, December 9, 1967; and Havana, Cuba,
January 8, 1968. He said in addition they had sent
explosive packages to "traitors among the exiles."
GONZALEZ stated that the top leaders of the MIRR were
running the Cuban Power organization and that within seven
or eight days they were going to cause an explosion which
would be heard all over the world. (
(X) (21)

The source stated the above conversation with
GONZALEZ occurred at the offices of the Cuban Express.
Company, 1753 West Flagler Street, Miami, and while the
source and GONZALEZ were en route from the Cuban Express
Company to the "Segundo Caribe Supermarket," 35th Street
and N. W. 17th Avenue, Miami, where GONZALEZ' girlfriend
is employed.21
(21)

The source advised the Cuban Express Company is
a shipping company engaged in shipment of parcels to Cuba
and the company is owned by PAULINO GUTIERREZ VIDAL.
GUTIERREZ VIDAL and his son, JORGE GUTIERREZ ULLA, are
members of the MIRR and are close associates of ORLANDO
BOSCH. BOSCH frequently meets with MIRR members at the
the (*) (1)


R
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

MM 149-425

SECRET

Cuban Express Company office and the source stated that recent bombings by Cuban Power may be an effort to eliminate competition, noting the Cuban Express Company is not one of those companies which has been bombed to date.

On January 16, 1968, the source again visited the Cuban Express Company office and talked with BOSCH, GUTIERREZ VIDAL, and another Cuban male, name unknown, described as Trigueno, about 25 years old, 5'6", stocky build, short black hair combed straight back, and known to be a member of the Military Department of the MIRR. During the ensuing conversation, BOSCH confirmed that a bomb would be set off by them within the next few days and stated he was then leaving for South Miami via Highway Number 1 to pick up some explosives. The source received the impression that both PAULINO GUTIERREZ VIDAL and the Cuban male were involved in this activity with BOSCH, since BOSCH spoke freely before them.

On January 19, 1968, the source again visited the Cuban Express office and talked with PAULINO GUTIERREZ VIDAL who was alone. GUTIERREZ VIDAL appeared to be very excited and stated, "The plane from Merida arrives today--stand by for the next 24 hours--we will have big news for you." GUTIERREZ indicated he had been in contact with FAUSTO DIAZ, local manager of the Compania Aerea de Carga Yucatan, in connection with his shipping business and that DIAZ had informed him of the scheduled arrival and departure times of the plane from Merida, Mexico.

On January 20, 1968, at approximately 3:00 AM, according to information supplied to the source by his wife, an unidentified male telephoned the home of the source and talked with his wife. The caller reportedly told his wife to tell him, "We put a bomb on the plane for Merida," after which the caller hung up. The source stated his wife, who is well acquainted with ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, recognized the caller's voice as that of BOSCH.

S

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32294534 Page 11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

MM 149-425

SECRET

The source stated that at 6:50 AM, January 20, 1968, the above caller again called his residence and talked with his wife. The caller asked for the source and was told he had gone to the airport. The source's wife inquired if this was not BOSCH calling, after which the caller hung up. (*(U)

The source was of the opinion BOSCH did not actually place the bomb on the B-25 cargo plane on January 20, 1968, but that this was probably effected by JORGE GONZALEZ, also known as "Bombilla," at the instructions of BOSCH. (X)(11)

The following information was developed by Special Agent JAMES D. HAYES:

On February 12, 1968, [HARRY RANDALL] CIA Covert, Miami (protect), advised [OSCAR ANGULO] furnished the following information. This information is being furnished on a need-to-know basis and is not to be disseminated outside the Bureau. It is classified "SECRET".(X)

On February 7, 1968, [OSCAR ANGULO] during the conversation with JORGE GONZALEZ, learned "they" were going to continue to frighten some members of the Press, including NORMAN DIAZ, JUAN AMADOR RODRIGUEZ and SERGIO VIDAL. [ANGULO] did not furnish any further statistics or specific details or identification concerning this brief conversation.

NORMAN DIAZ and JUAN AMADOR RODRIGUEZ are announcers for local Spanish Language Radio Station WMIE, Miami, and SERGIO VIDAL CAYRO is Director of Operations and Sales Manager for local Spanish Language Radio Station WFAB, Miami, Florida.

On February 14, 1968, AUSTIN HORN, CIA Covert, Miami, (protect), advised [OSCAR ANGULO] furnished the following information:)

[OSCAR ANGULO] upon learning about the arrest of RICARDO MORALES, called JORGE GONZALEZ. At this time JORGE GONZALEZ remarked "it appears we have been infiltrated". JORGE GONZALEZ told [ANGULO] he would come to Radio Station

T SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

MM 149-425

# SECRET

WMIE to talk personally with ANGULO JORGE GONZALEZ arrived at Radio Station WMIE, 36th Street and Allapattah, approximately 9:30 A.M., at which time ANGULO was busily engaged in conversation with another Cuban exile about a different matter. JORGE GONZALEZ listened to this conversation; however, did not participate and shortly after 10:00 indicated that he had to leave because he had a 10:30 appointment, not further described. JORGE GONZALEZ left Radio Station WMIE without talking over the matter of mutual interest concerning the alleged bombings and Cuban Power.

On February 23, 1968, HARRY RANDALL CIA Covert, Miami (protect), furnished the following information, which he indicated had been received from OSCAR ANGULO This information was furnished on "a need-to-know" basis and is classified "SECRET". This information is not to be disseminated outside the Bureau.

On February 11, 1968, OSCAR ANGULO, accompanied by ORLANDO BOSCH, met with JUAN FERNANDEZ CASTRO, an automobile salesman, Miami, at 36th Street and N. Miami Avenue. FERNANDEZ CASTRO told BOSCH that in the next few days he would have the most urgent items ready for him, referring to the time pencils. BOSCH told OSCAR ANGULO not to worry about that incident which occurred at a residence in the Hialeah-Miami Springs area. BOSCH indicated apparently the local authorities did not take down his tag number and nothing has happened; therefore, ANGULO was above suspicion

On February 19, 1968, OSCAR ANGULO met with JORGE GONZALEZ at Caridito's Super Market, 17th Avenue and N.W. 35th Street GONZALEZ had been trying urgently to contact ORLANDO BOSCH in connection with notices which they were planning to put out concerning the Cuban Power and MIRR organizations. During this conversation GONZALEZ, in a joking manner, told ANGULO "next time your wife gets a telephone call, tell her not to hang up". Supposedly


SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

MM 149-425

SECRET

this was just a laughing matter; however, ANGULO believes the telephone call made to his wife the morning of the bombing of the B-25 airplane transporting parcels to Cuba via Mexico was the incident to which GONZALEZ had referred.

On February 22, 1968, at 9:00 A.M., OSCAR ANGULO was supposed to meet with ORLANDO BOSCH at local Spanish Language Radio Station WMIE, 36th Street, Miami; however, BOSCH's wife telephonically notified ANGULO at the radio station that BOSCH would not be able to keep his appointment.

At 6:45 P.M., on February 22, 1968, ANGULO talked with BOSCH by telephone (BOSCH's telephone is 443-9310) and BOSCH said he had been very busy with important matters. He stated he would meet with ANGULO on February 23, 1968, at 9:00 A.M., at Radio Station WMIE.

On February 22, 1968, at 7:15 P.M., OSCAR ANGULO telephonically attempted to contact JORGE GONZALEZ at his residence unsuccessfully. GONZALEZ's sister said JORGE was taking a bath at that time and suggested he call back in about three minutes. ANGULO stated he did not call back that evening

On February 23, 1968, at 9:00 A.M., JORGE GONZALEZ called OSCAR ANGULO at Radio Station WMIE and talked with ANGULO. GONZALEZ stated he tried to call ANGULO the night before, but could not get in touch with him. He said ORLANDO BOSCH would not be able to see ANGULO on February 23, 1968, because he had many important things to do. GONZALEZ related that on February 19 or 20, 1968, he left Miami destined for Key West, Florida, and told his sister if anyone called him he would be back in two or three days. GONZALEZ continued the FBI had tried to find him all over town. He said he had been preparing those things which they had discussed on February 19 or 20, 1968, not further described. ANGULO noted at that time propaganda notices by Cuban Power and MIRR were discussed on February 19 or 20, and presumed this is what JORGE GONZALEZ had been referring to. Further, "they" were safeguarding material in a place, in a boat (for embarkation) for an attack on Cuba which the radio of FIDEL CASTRO would have to talk about because



SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

MM 149-425

SECRET

this matter will be of such magnitude that it cannot be overlooked (not further detailed or described)

JORGE GONZALEZ had a meeting with the FBI, according to ANGULO, and JORGE GONZALEZ advised that he had met with the FBI and the FBI believes that GONZALEZ had something to do with the bombing of the Russian Embassy in Washington, D. C. GONZALEZ stated he had shown the FBI agent a gas receipt ticket he acquired for the boat in Key West. In this operation he would be accompanied by two people, not further described. Concerning the gas receipt ticket, above, GONZALEZ stated the FBI had even questioned the owner of the gas station to verify his purchase of the gas in order to verify GONZALEZ's presence in Key West at that time.

GONZALEZ stated he had talked with the FBI agents because ORLANDO BOSCH had so authorized. BOSCH did not want GONZALEZ to get in any trouble with the FBI. GONZALEZ also stated he did not want to be interrogated by the FBI and if they continued to molest him in his home he was going to obtain an attorney to stop these activities by the FBI.

On February 23, 1968, HARRY RANDALL CIA Covert, Miami, (protect), advised that OSCAR ANGULO ascertained JORGE GONZALEZ was out of town for a few days, claiming to have been in Key West, Florida, to pick up some arms. ANGULO did not believe this to be true and asserted he believed JORGE GONZALEZ had actually been visiting with HARRY (LNU), a pilot in Orlando, Florida, not further identified. ANGULO related JORGE GONZALEZ had returned to the Miami area as of February 23, 1968.

NW 50953 DocId:32294534 Page 15

VV SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

MM 149-425

SECRET

RE: JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU
Date of Birth: May 22, 1936
Place of Birth: Cuba
INS #:
A12 844 786

ROBERTO DOMEQ RODRIGUEZ
aka "Domec"
INS #:
A12 854 781

NESTOR RODDA MEOQUI
aka Ernesto Rodda
Date of Birth: June 10, 1938
Residence: 3450 SW 10th Street
Apartment 3
Miami, Florida

HAYES:

The following information was obtained by SA JAMES D.

On January 30, 1968, HARRY RANDALL, CIA Covert, Miami, telephonically furnished the following information, which he stated was classified "Secret." He advised the two sources of the information were very sensitive and therefore, this information is not to be disseminated outside of the Bureau and restricted to personnel within the FBI on a need-to-know basis.

On January 29, 1968, MANUEL VILLA FANA MARTINEZ stated he had been told by MARIO FERRER PEREZ that the Miami Police Department representatives visited FERRER and ATON CONSTANZO PALAU on January 26, 1968. They asked for information regarding the Cuban Power movement and reportedly asked them to work as informants in the case. Both men allegedly told the police they knew nothing about Cuban Power. FERRER told VILLA FANA he had no intention of telling the Miami Police Department about Cuban Power, but he would inform VILLA FANA, who could pass the information to the CIA, and requested this not be furnished to the Police Department, because he is well known to the group involved.



X SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

MM 149-425

SECRET

FERRER said he knew the bombs planted recently at the package shipment stores were placed by ATON CONSTANZO PALAU and a Cuban Negro known only as "DOMEC." He stated "DOMEC" is possibly identical with ROBERTO DOMEQ RODRIGUEZ, INS Number A12 854 781. DOMEQ is a member of the group of ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER ROJAS, which was arrested in January, 1967, in connection with the alleged attempted invasion of Haiti.($)(u)

FERRER also stated the entire Cuban Power movement is under the control of ROLANDO MASFERRER.($)(u)

A third member of the group is NESTOR RODDA MEOQUI, aka Ernesto Rodda, born June 10, 1938. RODDA resides at 3450 S. W. 10th Street, Apartment 3, Miami, but he can also be located at 3491 S. W. 11th Street, Apartment 1.($)(u)

FERRER stated he observed ATON, DOMEQ and RODDA on the night the last three bombs were planted. On the following day, these three were in almost constant contact by phone and took unusual precautions to prevent their phone conversations from being overheard. ATON has reportedly told the Miami Police Department and other law enforcement agencies he has a cache of explosives, but that it is dynamite. FERRER believes from what ATON has told him, the cache is actually C-4 plastic explosive.($)(u)

FERRER also stated C-4 is for sale in the Miami area by certain individuals not named in the Second National Front of the Escambray and others, unnamed, who can get it from New York and "Mafia" contacts, at $1.50 per pound, sold only in 100 pound lots. FERRER also advised a large quantity of acid-type time pencils from the same sources are available in the Miami area.($)(u)

(RANDALL) advised he desired any contact with(VILLA FANA)(s) be made through CIA; however, these contacts can be made immediately if and when they may be desired by the FBI.($)(u)





Y

'SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32294534 Page 17


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

MM 149-425

RE: JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU

SECRET

The following information was obtained by SA LEONARD C. PETERSON:

On January 30, 1968, ALFREDO BARAD, assigned to Miami Intelligence Division, Miami Police Department, in connection with their investigation regarding the recent bombings in Miami, advised that PALAU had contacted him relative to the bombings and was primarily interested in furnishing information relative to the bombings if the Police Department would take care of a criminal matter in which he is involved. Officer BARAD advised that PALAU has been unable to furnish any pertinent information regarding the bombings and it is his impression that PALAU is not completely stable.

RE: JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU
and
MANUEL VILLAFANA MARTINEZ
Date of Birth: April 27, 1926

On January 29, 1968, CLAUDIO MEDINA HERNANDEZ furnished the following information to SA WILLIAM E. DOWLING:

On January 28, 1968, he had a conversation with a man whose identity he did not wish to divulge, since this individual furnished him the following information after making him promise that he would not mention the man's name in discussing this matter with anyone else.

The source of the information is a friend of ATON CONSTANZO, who resides on S. W. 4th Street, Miami (believed to be identical with ATON CONSTANZO PALAU, 752 S. W. 4th Street, Miami file 2-387). Source advised that CONSTANZO allows a group of Cubans to use his house for meetings, both evening and night, but that he, CONSTANZO, is not a member of the group. This is the group known as the Secret Anti-Communist Army (Ejercito Secreto Anti-Comunista) and they have recently adopted the name of Cuban Power (Poder Cubano). This source told that these Cubans are the ones responsible for the recent bombings in Miami, including the airplane at the airport and the three

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

MM 149-425

SECRET

business places in Southwest Miami. According to [MEDINA,] [c]
the source did not mention any of the out of town bombings
and, not wishing to appear too inquisitive, he did not
inquire about that. (*)

The source told [MEDINA] that the leader of this group, [c]
now known as Cuban Power, Is MANUEL VILLAFANA who has worked
for CIA for many years and is still directly employed by CIA.
The other members of the group are not believed to be connected
with CIA at this time, although many of them probably were
in the past.(*)

The source told [MEDINA] that VILLAFANA and his [CC]
associates have plenty of C-4 and C-5 and the know-how to
use it. (*)

[MEDINA] stated he had no further information [C]
concerning this matter at present, but he will attempt to
obtain more details and corroborating information. (*)

MANUEL VILLAFANA is the subject of Miami File
105-2615. This is a dead file which shows only that
VILLAFANA was of operational interest to CIA in 1960(XS)

Miami file 62-3573 contains background information
pertaining to VILLAFANA as follows:

MANUEL VILLAFANA MARTINEZ
Date of Birth: April 27, 1926
Place of Birth: Camaguey, Cuba
Parents: RAFAEL VILLAFANA TURINO
OLEMA MARTINEZ ROURA
Residence: Miami
Occupation: Air Force Pilot
In March, 1959, he was assigned to Mexico
as Military and Air Attache with the rank
of Captain.

In 1963, VILLAFANA was one of many Cubans forbidden
by INS to leave the United States.

There are no recent references on VILLAFANA.

AA

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

MM 149-425

RE: ARTURO CARABALLO
CUCO (LNU)
ARMANDO FLEITES

SECRET

The following informant report was obtained February 5, 1968, by SA JOHN E. MC HUGH from YMM (1248-PSI)(C)

CUCO (LNU) has been attending the classes on Tuesday and Thursday nights at 315 N. E. 23rd Street. ARTURO CARABALLO has been the instructor in the class on the handling of explosives, including C-4.

ARTURO CARABALLO is well pleased with the progress that CUCO (LNU) has been making, and indicated that if his services were ever needed he could be relied upon to do a good job. CUCO (LNU) seems to have the aptitude for the handling of explosives.

CUCO (LNU) is described as follows:

Sex: Male
Race: White
Nationality: Cuban
Age: Early 20's
Height: 5'9"
Weight: 200
Build: Husky
Hair: Black

On February 6, 1968, MAX LESNICK, who was currently publishing a newspaper, "La Replica," in Miami, stopped by the office of the Second National Front of the Escambray to confer with ARMANDO FLEITES. LESNICK questioned FLEITES as to who was behind Cuban Power. FLEITES told LESNICK that he felt the Cubans supporting ex-President FULGENCIO BATISTA were responsible for the bombings. LESNICK did not agree with the opinion expressed by FLEITES and LESNICK thought it was a group from some revolutionary organization against CASTRO, but not necessarily Batistianos. When LESNICK left the office, FLEITES remarked that he just gave that answer to LESNICK to try to confuse him. FLEITES admitted he was in agreement with the bombings, but did not indicate he was participating in them.

DD SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

MM 149-425

RE: RAMIRO DE LA FE
aka Captain Anton

SECRET

The following information was developed on February 8, 1968, by SA WILLIAM P. KELLY from PCI JOHN ALEXANDER O'CONNELL:

On February 8, 1968, PCI had a conversation with Haitian Consul at Miami, EUGENE MAXIMILIEN. MAXIMILIEN claimed that "Captain ANTON," a white male Cuban, 34-36 years, about 6'1", or somewhat less, heavy build, dark hair, was recently convicted in Federal Court, Miami, in connection with the hijacking of a U. S. ship off Miami Beach. MAXIMILIEN stated "Captain ANTON" was the leader of the hijackers. (This may be referring to RAMIRO DE LA FE, one of the subjects in Miami file 45-1127.)

Regarding "Captain ANTON," MAXIMILIEN stated that this individual is currently locally engaged in "shaking down" (extorting) money from unidentified Latin American Consuls in Miami. MAXIMILIEN further stated that he believes "Captain ANTON" to be the person responsible for recent bombings in the Miami area, including the bombing of the Mexican Consul's home.

According to MAXIMILIEN, "Captain ANTON" drives a 1961 or 1962 Chevrolet, bearing Florida license 18W2221.

On January 29, 1968, furnished the following report to SA ROBERT G. STRONG:

There have been several exchanges of impressions and discussions among RAUL GRAMATGES, PEDRO FERREIRO and MARTINIANO ORTA, motivated by recent events in Cuba and here in Miami. Because of comments and opinions expressed in anti-CASTRO revolutionary groups in Miami, it is supposed that the recent dynamiting attacks are the work of one of these groups:

1.  M.I.R.R. of ORLANDO BOSCH (if they were done with TNT).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

MM 149-425

SECRET

RE: SERGIO FREIJO, aka., Sergio Freijo y Dedia, Carlos
Salgado-Suarez, DOB 7/21/24, Havana, Cuba,
Social Security #457-70-8161

The following investigation was conducted by
SA JAMES D. HAYES:

On January 25, 1968, MM 724-S, an individual
acquainted with certain phases of both pro and anti-CASTRO
activities in Cuba and the United States, advised SERGIO
FREIJO was in the Miami area while released on bond in
connection with the hijacking of the freighter transport.
He stated FREIJO is an explosives expert and was well known
in Cuba for his terrorist activities. He also advised
FREIJO had been in contact with members of the Cuban Youth of
Ft. Jackson, an anti-CASTRO organization.[^1]

MM 724-S recalled that the Cuban Youth of Fort
Jackson group had seriously considered dividing into small
cellular units in order to undertake positive action
purportedly against communism and FIDEL CASTRO. In this
connection, they planned to use codes, which included the
names of individuals who were actually in Cuba as pseudonyms,
for either an operation or members of a cell. The organization
planned to organize in a secretive active group within the
organization with not more than 4 or 5 men to a cell in this
inter-group. In order to maintain their anonymity, one cell
would undertake a certain project for a short period of time
and then cell number two would follow for another brief
period of time and thereafter cell number three and number
four, etc. Each time the cell which just completed the
activity would move to the bottom of the list and become
completely inactive in every respect. This is being done
for a two-fold purpose: (1) to continue secrecy regarding
the objectives, including secrecy among its own members and
even between cells and (2) to prevent the local and/or
Federal authorities from discovering their purpose and
identity. [^2]

KK

SECRET

[^1] missing footnote
[^2] missing footnote


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

MM 149-425

`SECRE`

ERNESTO DE LA FE, described as coordinator of "Los Accionistas de Cuba" (Actionists of Cuba) reportedly sent a communication to SERGIO FREIJO, giving FREIJO the signal to start activity against communism and CASTRO. NO further details were mentioned in this connection. MM 724-S said ERNESTO DE LA FE is the brother of ROMERO DE LA FE, who is currently in the Miami area, released on bond from his arrest in connection with the hijacking of the "freighter transport." ERNESTO was the Minister of Press and Propaganda in the BATISTA Government and General Secretary of an anti- communist organization. He is currently serving a 30 year sentence in prison in Cuba.

MM 724-S believed SERGIO FREIJO has recently been in contact with Cuban news reporter BENJAMIN DE LA VEGA, who may be aware of the reported communication received by FREIJO from ERNESTO DE LA FE.

The following information was obtained from PCI JESUS DIEGUEZ on February 23 and 27, 1968, by SA JAMES J. O'CONNOR:

PCI related that SERGIO FREIJO "is the type to work with Poder Cubano". About a month ago FREIJO, who is employed at Aerodex, called PCI and inquired if the latter knew of a place in which a person could be hidden out. A few months previously FREIJO inquired if PCI could obtain explosives. PCI stated he replied in the negative to inquiries by FREIJO and that he did not ask FREIJO what was going on.

PCI advised that FREIJO has known him since Cuba. During the revolutionary activity against President BATISTA, FREIJO was involved in a plot to kill a communist organizer named FABIO GRAUBART, and, at that time, FREIJO was hidden by a group which included the PCI.

PCI had lived in Chicago prior to the hijacking of the freighter "Freight Forwarder" at Miami about September, 1967 by a group of Cubans headed by RAMIRO DE LA FE.

LL `SECRET`


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

MM 149-425

SECRET

RE: MN 492-5( (4)

The following information was obtained by SA JAMES
D. HAYES from MM 492-S and other sources close to this informant:(x(U)

On February 1, 1968, MM 492-8 advised ANTONIO ARIAS announced over Spanish language radio station WFAB, Miami, at 7:50 AM, February 1, 1968, another Cuban Power communique had been received at this radio station.

On February 1, 1968, ANTONIO ARIAS advised bulletin number 2 of Cuban Power had been received at the station earlier that morning and he had made the announcement over the radio on one occasion concerning its receipt at the station. He advised he received it from OMAR MARCHANTE, employee, WFAB, who was on duty during the hours of 1AM to 5AM. MARCHANTE informed ARIAS the envelope had been pushed under the front door of the station and he had opened it and given it to ARIAS. MARCHANTE indicated he believed the envelope was left at the station at approximately 3:22 AM, February 1, 1968. ARIAS advised he had left the envelope and the bulletin in a special cabinet for SERGIO VIDAL CAYRO who was in charge of the station.((1)

On February 1, 1968, SERGIO VIDAL CAYRO, Vice-President of the United Broadcasting Company of Florida and Director of Operations and Sales Manager of the Spanish language radio station WFAB, Miami, personally appeared at the Miami Office. He furnished bulletin number 2 of Cuban Power and the envelope, explaining he did not believe anyone else had touched it except ARIAS and MARCHANTE. He also made available a four page notice given to him by ISRAEL SOTO BARROSO on January 26, 1968. He noted SOTO BARROSO had expressed a desire to personally appear on the radio over WFAB but because of his communist background and the fact he is a controversial figure currently associated with FELIPE RIVERO and the Cuban Nationalist Association, VIDAL was holding this request in abeyance. SOTO BARROSO was accompanied by MIGUEL SAN PEDRO at the time he talked with

NN SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

MM 149-425

# SECRET

On February 1, 1968, MM 492-S advised a meeting was held on this date of the Cuban Pharmacists in Exile concerning the recent bombings attributed to this Cuban Power. He stated 29 individuals attended this meeting, including owners, managers or their representatives of various pharmacies in the Miami area. There was a great difference of opinion among these individuals concerning the sending of parcels to Cuba; because of this controversy a committee was formed consisting of the representatives of the organization of Cuban Pharmacists in Exile, including ANDRES RODRIGUEZ, owner of Andres Pharmacy, 9th Avenue and West Flagler; CARLOS ACOSTA, Highland Park Pharmacy, 9th Street and NW 7th Avenue; Santa Clara Pharmacy, 8th Street and S. W. 23rd Avenue; "ANTORITO," representative of the Hialeah Pharmacy. This committee was instructed to prepare a manifesto for the press in the next day or so concerning a policy to be practiced by all members of this organization of Cuban Exile Pharmacists concerning the sending of parcels to Cuba.

MM 492-S believed the manifesto will state the pharmacists will continue to send parcels to Cuba, however, they will be limited exclusively to sending medicine and small socks for small children. The socks, which are not available in Cuba, can help to clothe youngsters but also help in the packing of the medicines. Further, MM 492-S believes they will strictly oppose the sending of any radio, electrical or automotive parts to Cuba. Further, news has been received from Cuba that FIDEL CASTRO's communist government of Cuba has reportedly not permitted any packages to be delivered to the recipients in Cuba since the bombing of the Havana Post Office, January 8, 1968. Therefore, it is believed no parcels will actually be sent to Cuba by the pharmacists until they have been assured by relatives in Cuba that packages are being received by these relatives in Cuba.

On February 1, 1968, (FNU) CEPERO, co-owner of Warfield Drugstore, 27th Avenue N. W. near 7th Street, advised they had received a threatening call concerning the sending of packages to Cuba a week or so ago. No further details available.

On February 1, 1968, VIRGILIO (LNU), co-owner of Warfield Drugstore, confidentially advised HM 492-8 he believes ROLANDO MERULO, member of the CNM, might possibly be involved in the threat concerning ceasing of sending parcels to Cuba. He stated OTTO MERULO, brother of ROLANDO,

P.P

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

MM 149-425

SECRET

is reportedly serving a 15 year sentence in prison in Cuba.
However, OTTO is reportedly the indoctrinator of Communism
to the prisoners.

VIRGILIO (LNU) also informed MM 492-S one night
he received an anonymous call trying to scare him into not
sending packages to Cuba. When he asked the anonymous
caller why he should not send and indicating that he would
continue to do so until he is forced to stop, the caller
hung up. VIRGILIO believed highly significant and possibly
more than mere coincidence the following morning ROLANDO
MERULO and another member of the staff of the newspaper
"El Nacionalista" appeared at the store attempting to sell
an ad for the "El Nacionalista" newspaper. VIRGILIO stated
they took an ad in the paper at that time. He also advised
MIGUEL SAN PEDRO, active leader of the CNM, is a customer
at the Warfield Drugstore. VIRGILIO described the anonymous
caller as a Cuban male who spoke perfect Spanish with Cuban
inflection. He did not know the name of the individual but
indicated the voice seemed very familiar to him and he would
remain alert should he hear this voice again.

On February 5, 1968, MM 492-S furnished SA JAMES D.
HAYES the following report on Cuban Power and bombings in the
Miami area, along with informant's comments and conclusions:

The newspaper "PATRIA," which is directed by
ARMANDO GARCIA SIFREDO, has always been opposed to
terrorism, possibly because SIFREDO was one of the first
victims of gunmen and terrorism in Miami. First, there was
a bomb which exploded in front of his house some time ago.
Then, he was playing dominoes on the porch of the home of
his friend, VIVANCOS, S. W. 8th Avenue between 3rd and 4th
Streets, and several shots were aimed at him from an auto.
Later, another bomb exploded under his car. On another
occasion, an unknown person hit him with his fists as he
was leaving a restaurant, and for a long time he received
telephone calls from anonymous persons who threatened to
kill him because of the partiality shown in his newspaper
"PATRIA" which sometimes defended General BATISTA and his
friends, at other times opposed the Fidelistas, possible
infiltrees, the people who keep coming in, etc.

QQ SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

MM 149-425

SECRET

SOTO BARROSO spoke of unity as a basis, and he considered FELIPE RIVERO DIAZ and CARLOS MARQUEZ STERLING as the best leaders, along with men like JOAQUIN MARTINEZ SAENZ and others. He said that the factory workers will join RIVERO and MARQUEZ STERLING and other organizations will continue to get closer to these two figures, in exile in order to form complete unity among the exiles.

On the afternoon of February 5, 1968, sometime after 5, the Continental News Broadcast, which is directed by Commentator NORMAN DIAZ on WMIE, announced that it was going to transmit a letter from Cuban Power, and since MM 492-S could not get in touch with the contact there, he prepared a recording and was able to record the reading of the document signed by Cuban Power.

He advised he had the reel with the tape on which all the items which were broadcast were recorded.

He advised he could tell in advance that Cuban Power took the blame for the bomb which exploded in Havana, Cuba, for the others, and for the one which exploded under the plane at the Miami Airport, but refused to take the blame for the bomb placed under the auto of the Mexican Consul in Miami, Mr. REYES SPINDOLA, and explains that it did not participate in others. We do not know which ones they are referring to.

NORMAN DIAZ has the letter referred to, but source has not been able to speak to him. Neither has he been able to talk to SERGIO VIDAL to find out if he also received the press memorandum from Cuban Power.

It appears that Cuban Power is somewhat frightened by the investigations and the action of justice, and this may be the reason for the document which was broadcast on the afternoon of February 5, 1968, according to MM 492-S.

VV 'SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

MM 149-425

SECRET

RE: Anonymous Telephone call to
Radio Station WQAM, regarding
the bombings in Miami on
January 25, 1968

ROBERT KAY, Announcer, WQAM Radio Station, Miami,
Florida, received a telephone call at 5:30 AM, January 25,
1968, which conversation was recorded by KAY.

On January 29, 1968, MM 1115-S listened to this
recording and stated the caller sounded like that of
ANGEL ESTEVEZ of the Second National Front of the Escambray
(SNFE). However, the informant could not be definite in his
identification.

MM 1249-PSI listened to the recording on January
29, 1968. This informant stated the voice of the anonymous
caller sounded like that of ERNESTO LEDO of the Cuban
Nationalist Association (CNA) which is headed by FELIPE
RIVERO. Informant stated he could not make a positive
identification regarding the anonymous caller.

On January 26, 1968, TOMAS GARCIA FUSTE, who has
requested his identity be protected, who is Assistant Station
Manager and Announcer of Radio Station WFAB, reviewed the
recording of the anonymous caller. FUSTE was unable to
identify the anonymous caller.

On January 26, 1968, OSCAR ANGULO REYES, 2900
N. W. 92nd Street, Miami, a Radio Announcer for Radio
Station WMIE, Miami, and his wife, listened to the taped
recording of the anonymous caller. ANGULO and his wife
tentatively identified the voice of the caller as that of
ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, with whom they are acquainted. ANGULO
is of highly operational interest to CIA and CIA has
requested his name be protected. (C)(S)

WW SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)