2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10149

RECORD SERIES : NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-35253-991

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/05/1962

PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS: ANTI CASTRO ACTIVITIES IS-CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASS*TION AND/OR,
RELEAS* *RMADONECTOR, FBI (109-584)
IN THIS DOOD MENT EXCEPT BRACKETS
MAL 7-27-98

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES
IS-CUBA

APR 5 1962

6-23-98
CLASSIFIED PV 5608 SUDILSH
DECLASSIFY ON 25人 1

ReNYlet to Bureau dated 3/29/62.

MICHAEL J. P. MALONE, Vice-President, Czarnikow-
Rionda Company, 106 Wall St., NYC, who is also employed
by ROBERT KLEBERG of the King Ranch, Kingsville, Texas,
advised on 3,80/62, that he had memoranda of his recent
conversations in Washington, D.C., which he furnished
the NYO. The memoranda of MALONE were written for
ROBERT KLEBERG as a result of KLEBERG's meeting with
Vice President LYNDON B. JOHNSON on 3/15/62.

In connection with MALONE's conversation with
Mr. HERBERT of the CIA, who was described as an assistant
to Colonel KING MALONE wrote that HERBERT HERBERT had had informed informed K
him that CIA had IA had separated the section in in CIA which(U)
deals solely with Cuban matters. MALONE wrote in his
memorandum that (HERBERT Feported HERBERT reported to him that he, HERBERT, 1
did not agree with the general opinion of Vice President
LYNDON JOHNSON relative to the lack of plans by President
KENNEDY relative to Cuba. (HERBERT told MALONE that he
believed that President JOHN F. KENNEDY would act in the
event of a crisis in Cuba and he believed that the
opinion expressed by LYNDON B. JOHNSON with ROBERT KLEBERG
on 3/15/62, was true as of many months ago.

MALONE wrote in his memorandm to KLEBERG that
HERBERT Was of the opinion that within the next two to
three months, a favorable and appropriate climate will
be created inside Cuba which would be favorable to some
type of activity to overthrow the CASTRO Government.

MALONE in the same memorandum wrote that HERBERT (4)
expressed the opinion that the US Government should not
loan Chile 385 million dollars as proposed by TEODORO
MOSCOSO of the Alliance For Progress Program. (HERBERT statedu)
that he is very familiar with Chile and did not believe
that they were in a position on to intelligently utilize
such a large sum of money and expressed an opinion that
at the Foreign Ministers meeting at Punt@ardel Este,
Uruguay, in January, 1962, Chile was against the US's

2-Bureau (109-584) (RM)
New York (105-35253)
FJQ:kap

NW 50953 DocId:32313221 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

NY 105-35253

position. [HERBERT](3)(4) expressed the opinion that the US
should give more encouragement to Colombia and Argentina,
who have already drawn up programs for social reform
within the countries.

MALONE also wrote in his memorandum that [HERBERT] (
expressed the opinion that MALONE and his associates
should attempt to discuss the Cuban question with Attorney
General ROBERT F. KENNEDY as he believes the Attorney
General was a very strong minded individual and if he
made a decision, would carry it out [HERBERT] also stated
that he believed MALONE and his associates should also
talk with Senators HUMPHREY and MC CARTHY, both members
of the "New Frontier", who are also individuals who can
make a tremendous impression on President KENNEDY. [HERBERT](u)
stated that he would furnish MALONE some ideas relative
to contacting Senator HUMPHREY.

MALONE, on 3/30/62, furnished a second memo
which he had written to ROBERT KLEBERG relative to his
conversation with a CIA contact, CHARLES MAECHIN(ph.).[^5]
MALONE wrote that [MAECHIN] had informed him that the
section within CIA handling Cuba has been separated
from the rest of CIA and now functions as an individual
unit and has its counterpart in the Departments of Defense
and State.

MALONE wrote that he had discussed with [MAECHIN][^6]
Vice President JOHNSON's opinion that President KENNEDY
would not act in Cuba or commit US troops in Cuba, and
[^5]MAECHIN stated that he did not exactly agree with this
opinion of Vice President JOHNSON'S, but believed that
if President KENNEDY was confronted with a situation, he
would act with firmness despite possible repercussions
in Berlin and Viet Nam.

-2-

SECRET

[^5]: transcription error
[^6]: transcription error


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

NY 105-35253

MALONE stated that [MAECHIN]^(5) indicated that there was a [CIA] plan in the formative stage relative to Cuba, and that he was hopeful that they would have something to work on soon which would give [CIA]^(4) more authority on which to operate. [MAECHIN]^(5) also indicated to MALONE that a military build-up can be expected in the Florida area, and that a minor one is already taking place at the present time at the US Naval Base at Guantanamo, Oriente Province, Cuba. [MAECHIN]^(5) stressed that out of necessity future operations against Cuba would have to take place from an off-shore area because of security of the operation. MALONE also wrote in his memo that [MAECHIN]^(5) told him to tell ALBERTO FERNANDEZ of Key Biscayne, Florida, to be patient and that before long, [CIA]^(4) would fully utilize his abilities and equipment.

MALONE also furnished on 3/30/62, a copy of his memo to ROBERT KLEBERG relative to MALONE's conversation on 3/15/62, with SERAFINO ROMUALDI of the Latin American Section of the AFL-CIO. In this memo to KLEBERG, MALONE wrote that ROMUALDI stated that President KENNEDY was still being pushed and pulled by the "Intelligentia," who were identified as ARTHUR SCHLESINGER and ADLAI STEVENSON, toward following a soft line relative to Cuba. ROMUALDI told MALONE that RICHARD N. GOODWIN of the US Department of State apparently was waking up to the fact that the future of President KENNEDY depends upon a strong, firm policy and the elimination of CASTRO and Communism in Cuba immediately. ROMUALDI told MALONE that his opinion of GOODWIN's present thinking was gathered from individuals who dealt directly with GOODWIN concerning Cuba.

MALONE wrote to KLEBERG that ROMUALDI also recommended that he, MALONE, and his associates attempt to get an appointment with Attorney General ROBERT F. KENNEDY relative to Cuba as ROBERT KENNEDY is the strong influence on the President and has been pressuring the President to get rid of what he calls the "featherheads"


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)