# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

# IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10150-10104

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-3681

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, BR

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/21/1964

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT: JFK, OPINION, DRAGOMIR, ANGHEL, INTERVIEW

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 06/30/1997

UPDATE DATE: 02/09/2001

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS: JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

NW 50953 DocId:32163025 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via AIRTEL

TO : Director, FBI (62-109060)

FROM Legat, Bern (62-43) (RUC)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY
11/22/63, DALLAS, TEXAS
MISC. - INFO CONCERNING

Date: 8/21/64

SECRET

ReBuairtel 8/7/64.

Enclosed for Dallas are 25 copies each of insert
pages 1 and 2 with results of interview of ANGHEL DRAGOMIR.
As instructed by the Bureau, this insert incorporates the
translated letter from DRAGOMIR with appropriate comments
concerning the matter having been referred to the Bureau for
investigation.

Information on an individual by the name ANGHEL
DRAGOMIR from Bureau files as included in reairtel has not
been included in insert since identity has not been proven
and the information is not pertinent in any case.

The other Government agency referred to in the
insert is the Research Branch (Covert CIA) the Embassy,
Vienna, Austria.

6 - Bureau
(1 - Liaison) (Encl.)
(2 - Dallas) (89-43) (Encl.)
1 - Bern

HDG:mls
(7)

ENCLOSURE

Approved:
56 SEP 3 1964

NW 50953 DocId:32163025 Page 2

REC-60

CIA HATA K 2/10/97
DECLARATION ANDIORR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HERCIN IS UKLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Classified by
Declassify on: OADR
Per CIA letter 9/23/88.

62-109060-3681
"NOT RECORDED

Sent SECRET M Per


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)