124-90138-10007 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/21/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90138-10007
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-63987-210-370

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO: CIA
TITLE:
DATE: 10/02/1963
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
INTELLIGENCE MATTERS CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1 7
NW 50953 DocId:32337738 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Director
Central Intelligence Agency SECRET

12303

He is willingbetter to Vergara and instruct him to deriver the papers to a person who would be designated in his letter. He would make such a letter available to the FBI for delivery to Vergara.

Garcia advised that he has had no contact with Vergara since his departure from Cuba.

If feasible, it is requested that your Agency take the necessary steps, possibly through the Spanish Government or through the Swiss Embassy in Havana, to obtain Garcia's papers since they could conceivably contain intelligence and/or propaganda data of interest to the United States Government. If you desire, we would be glad to have Garcia write a personal letter to Vergara which would be made available to your Agency. If Garcia's papers are obtained, they will be reviewed by our Miami Office and pertinent data contained therein will be made available to interested agencies of the United States Government

NOTE FOR SAC, MIAMI:

On 9/26/63 State Department advised that it preferred that we handle this matter through CIA Above for your information.

NOTE:

We previously directed a letter to State Department asking that they handle the above matter. Contact with State Department on 9/26/63 was made bybŞAO. H. Bartlett with Mr. John MacDonald of State.

NW 50953 DocId:32337738 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)