# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form
Date: 5/26/201

### Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90037-10081

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-380792-26

### Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BN

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/29/1959

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: MARTIN GREENDLINGER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

# Office Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM : LEGAT, BONN (100-633)

SUBJECT: MARTIN GREENDLINGER, aka
SECURITY MATTER - C

SECRET

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: 1/29/59

Classified by *SP6BJA/GCL*
Declassify on: *DADR8/28/85*
*(CSPS MAC/GCL-4/15/94-JFK)*

Reference New York letterhead memorandum 11/17/58, furnished by Bureau routing slip 11/24/58.

The following agencies were furnished a summary of the New York information on the subject and were requested to provide any information which might come to their attention regarding the subject's travels or activities:

G-2, Headquarters, U.S. Army Europe;
Office of Special Investigations, U.S. Air Forces, Europe;
Office of Coordinator and Special Advisor (confidential CIA),
American Embassy, Bonn, Germany;[^1]
British Services Security Organization, British Forces in Germany;
Abteilung II (Security Police), Austrian Ministry of the Interior;
Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz (BfV - West German Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution) and,[^2]
Security Office, American Embassy, Vienna, Austria.[^3]

None of these agencies, except the British[^4] have furnished any information to date. The British Services Security Organization advised under date of 12/30/58, that it had no trace in its records on the subject, his parents, Mr. and Mrs. DAVID GREENDLINGER, or his wife, ELENA IVANOVNA Greendlinger.

RUC. LOC.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
REFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS
EX-102 KP 10-10-97

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE

3 - Bureau
1 - Bonn
(4) GAV:tlc

AGENCY /LOC-NH
REQ-R/D
DATE: 9-11-59
HOW FOR R/52 (i)
IDH: mss
BY: JAQUELINE COGUHO/

52 FEB 11 1959

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32325799 Page 2

[^1]: (5)
[^2]: (5)
[^3]: (5)
[^4]: REC-60


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)