124-90158-10069 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90158-10069
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-4735

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SJ
TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/05/1968
PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS: [Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, DIA

COMMENTS: AT; REFERRED TO DIA

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32340412 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
Transmit the following iDECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

Via AIRTEL

FBI
Date: 9/5/68

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIOplaintext or code)
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR THE BRACLET
KP 2-9-98
(Priority)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

FROM: SAC, SAN JUAN (109-44) (P)

SUBJECT: ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES
IS-CUBA

REFERENCES:

Bureau letter to San Juan, 7/26/68; Miami letter
to Bureau, 8/2/68.

ENCLOSURES:

Enclosed are 10 copies for the Bureau and 4 copies
for Miami of an LHM dated and captioned as above. The Bureau
is requested to forward 1 information copy of LHM to Legat
Santo Domingo.

Also enclosed for Bureau and Miami are one copy
each of Defense Intelligence Agency Information Report date
7/7/68, and entitled "Storage of Supplies in Mona Island
by a Cuban Exile Group" and classified CONTROLEED DISSEMINATION
NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION-SECRET.(5-2)(5)

ADMINISTRATIVE: EX-100 REC 82' 109-584-47

Enclosure to referenced Bureau letter was CIA
Information Cable TDCS-314/11033-68 dated 7/12/68, reporting
information regarding plan of Cuban exiles to ship arms from
Venezuela on 3 July, 1968." CIA source was described in
Information Cable as an experienced police investigator whose
positionngives him access to information on matters affecting
the internal security of Venezuela. Source furnished informa-
tion on 7/3/68, at Caracas, Venezuela.

Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) Information
Report reported information that Detachment-8, USAFSO, Miami,
Florida, received on 7/7/68, from a Cuban exile source residing
in the U. S. which this source had received from LUIS POSADA

(4-Bureau (enc 11) (RM)
(1 - Legat, Santo Domingo)
2-Miami (105-1742 enc 5) (RM)

Approved:San Juan

VM: cabspecial Agent Charge

Sent M Per

HSCA rep. of 12/22/17 SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

STELL DIV

90.158-10069

SEP 12 1968

SEP 9 | 13 PM

211,326

12356
DATE: 12/28/84 INITIALS: GCL

1) IS CIA

IS DIA - BRACKETED INFO ON PGS 1,2

REMAINS CLASSIFIED PER
DIA LTR BTD 5/5/86

SPERJA / GCL 211,326 9/27/90


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

FBI

Date: 9/5/68

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Transmit the following IDECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR THE BRACLETSI

Via AIRTEL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

FROM: SAC, SAN JUAN (109-44) (P)

SUBJECT: ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS-CUBA

REFERENCES:

Bureau letter to San Juan, 7/26/68; Miami letter to Bureau, 8/2/68.

ENCLOSURES:

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/WSR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (JFK)

Enclosed are 10 copies for the Bureau and 4 copies for Miami of an LHM đåted and captioned as above. The Bureau is requested to forward 1 information copy of LHM to Legat Santo Domingo.

Also enclosed for Bureau and Miami are one copy each of Defense Intelligence Agency Information Report dated 7/7/68, and entitled "Storage of Supplies in Mona Island by a Cuban Exile Group" and classified CONTROLEDD DISSEMINATION-SECRET. (5-2)(5)

ADMINISTRATIVE EX-100 109-584-4755

Enclosure to referenced Bureau letter was CIA Information Cable TDCS-314/11033-68 dated 7/12/68, reporting information regarding 'plan of Cuban exiles to ship arms from Venezuela on 3 July, 1968." CIA source was described in Information Cable as an experienced police investigator whose positionngives him access to information on matters affecting the internal security of Venezuela. Source furnished information on 7/3/68, at Caracas, Venezuela.

SEP 9 1968

Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) Information Report reported information that Detachment B, USAFSO Miami, Florida, received on 7/7/68, from a Cuban exile source residing in the U. S. which this source had received from LUIS POSADA.

(4) Bureau (ene 11) (RM)

(1 - Legat, Santo Domingo)

2-Miami (105-1742 enc 5) (RM)

NW 50953 DocId:32340412 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

SJ 109-44

[described as a Cuban exile residing in Venezuela and a member of the Central Directorate of Police in Venezuela. [5-2][5]
[POSADA]is possibly CIA source in Caracas as his characterization by the DIA source and CIA are similar and information reported [5][5]
DIA information report indicates that Cuban exile group known as the Ejercito De Liberacion Cubano (ELC) (Cuban Army of Liberation) plans to use Mona Island, off the coast of Puerto Rico, as a storage place and possibly as a training base. According to the source, this group has received assistance [from the Government of Venezuela] [5-2](5) in the form of weapons, amount and type not disclosed, and an "old" boat about 60 to 80" long. [POSADA] reported to the [5-2][5]
[Cuban exile] source that the ELC has made at least one trip [5-2][5]
to Mona Island [from Venezuela] for the purpose of carrying supplies. [5-2]()

[It should be noted that the boat described by
[POSADA]is possibly identical with the launch Maria Constanza [5-2][5]
described in CIA Information Cable as vessel being used to ship arms [from Venezuela] [5-2][5] [6-1](5)(entire P)

A copy of the DIA Information Report was furnished locally to the San Juan Office by Detachment 2, USAFSD, San Juan. DIA Information Report indicates that dissemination was made to CAS, Miami, Florida. [5-2](5)

JORGE MARCANO, Agent, U. S. Customs, San Juan, had received a copy of CIA Information Cable and had instituted investigation. He stated that the search of Mona Island as described in enclosed LHM was a result of this investigation. He indicated that he has plans to return to Mona Island to revorartthMoneaismandotos discovered there.

LHM being disseminated locally to U. S. Customs, San Juan and U. S. Coast Guard, San Juan.

![CIA INFO IN IPS AND PORTION OF IPS AT TOP (DOUBLE BRACKETED) AND BRACKETS IN IPS CLASSIFIED PER ITS 5/91 LTR]

REVIEWED BY EBUJFK TASK FORCE
ON 11/24/97

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

SJ 109-44

REQUEST OF BUREAU:

In view of the possibility that CIA source is LUIS POSADA who is reported to be furnishing information to a Cuban exile in the U. S. the Bureau should consider reporting this through liaison to CIA.

LEADS:

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

1. Disseminate copies of enclosed LHM to appropriate agencies. Miami is requested to furnish San Juan with extra copies of any LHMs regarding this matter so that dissemination may be made locally to U. S. Customs and U. S. Coast Guard.

2. Alert Cuban scurces particularly those reporting regarding ELC matters to the use of Mona Island as a storage or training base.

SAN JUAN

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

1. Will alert extablished sources and attempt to develop information regarding the use of Mona Island by Cuban exile groups.

2. Maintain contact with U. S. Customs and U. S. Coast Guard regarding this matter.

3

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)