124-10279-10018 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10018
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-221-1790

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 08/30/1967
PAGES: 2.
SUBJECTS: EGD, ASSOC, ARRESTED, ROLE, ACAPULCO MURDERS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Confidential
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/30/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32301683 Page 1 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intergence Information Cole

* ROUTINE

IN-41475

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEF NCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NMCC NIC NSA OCR SDO AID CGS

![FBI]

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmisson or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 300659Z CITE TDCS-314/13013-67

COUNTRY: MEXICO DIST 30 AUGUST 1967

DOI: 28 AUGUST 1967

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 9-18-95 BY-5668SLD
(JFK)

SUBJECT: ARREST OF FEDERAL DEPUTY CESAR DEL-ANGEL FUENTES

FOR AGITATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN GUERRERO

ACQ: MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (29 AUGUST 1967) FIELD REPORT

NO. HMM-11,295

SOURCE: MEXICAN SECURITY OFFICER WITH ACCESS TO INFORMATION

DERIVED FROM INVESTIGATIVE ACTIVITIES. CHIS REPORTING

HAS BEEN RELIABLE SINCE EARLY 1966.

REC 39

1. FIELD COMMENT: THE ROLE OF FEDERAL DEPUTY FROM THE STATE OF VERACRUZ, CESAR DEL ANGEL FUENTES, IN THE CLASH BETWEEN RIVAL FACTIONS OF THE COPRA GROWERS' UNION IN ACAPULCO, GUERRERO, OVER THE WEEKEND OF 19-20 AUGUST 1967 , RESULTING IN THE DEATH OF ABOUT THIRTY PERSONS AND THE WOUNDING OF ABOUT ONE HUNDRED, HAS BEEN WIDELY PUBLICIZED IN THE MEXICAN 'PRESS.

THERE HAS BEEN SPECULATION THAT HE WOULD BE ARRESTED, BUT FOR HIS CONGRESSIONAL IMMUNITY. HIS IMMUNITY, HOWEVER, EXPIRES.

232

54 SEP12 1967 C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50953 DocId:32301683 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

27.9-10018

IN-41475

Aug 31 11 45 AM '67

TDCS -314/13013-67

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(classification) (dissem controls)

WITH HIS TERM ON 1 SEPTEMBER.)

2. ON 28 AUGUST 1967, AGENTS OF THE MINISTRY OF GOVERN-MENT (GOBERNACION) ARRESTED FEDERAL DEPUTY CESAR DEL ANGEL AS HE WAS LEAVING THE HOME OF ELENA GARRO DE PAZ, LEFTIST MEXICAN PLAYWRIGHT. HE IS BEING INTERROGATED ABOUT HIS ROLE IN THE "ACAPULCO MURDERS."

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI CINCSO

REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NW 50953 DocId:32301683 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)