# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90155-10008
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-68530-116

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: WMFO
TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/07/1964
'PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS: NOSENKO 1964 REPORTINGS
YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32340193 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 10-29-63)

FBI

Date: 4/7/64

# SECRET

Transmit the following information

Via AIRTEL

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, RELEASE CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT the brackets -KP-5-26-98

TO: CIA ADDRESSED ONLY pgs. 1,2,3,46 DIRECTOR, FBI (65-68530)

FROM: SAC, WFO (134-5437 Sub

SUBJECT: YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO
ESP - R (KGB) (OO:WFO)

ReWFOairtel 3/6/64.

NOSENKO was interviewed 4/2/64, by SAS DONALD E. WALTER, ALEKSC POPTANICH, and MAURICE A. TAYLOR. A number of cases which originated with source were discussed with him for additional data and photographs of Soviet Nationals were displayed to him. Topics covered included the following:

VAN KRAKOV YUGOV, POSSIBLY YUGOV VAN KRAKOV

HUGO JOSEPH VON KRAKAU Suspect for the above individual was discussed with source who was unable to furnish additional information or make any conclusion although he observed it was significant that KRAKAU is approximately the same age as subject described by him and has part German background. Source advised that the contacts with LAWRENCE ALOYAN in Russia were made by Armenian Officers of KGB and none of the officers of the Seventh Department (tourist) were in contact with ALOYAN.

3-Bureau

1-New York (RM)

1-WFO

MAT:mal (5) C. C. Wick

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES AND FIELD OFFICES

BERNARD FERGUSON MITCHELL ADVISED BY ROUTING

WILLIAM HAMILTON MARTIN SLIP (S) OF DATE

AIRTEL

Approved: Thomas Sent
Special Agent in Charge

NW 50953 DocId:32340193 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

WFO 134-5437 Sub A

UNSUB; AMERICAN TOURIST TO RUSSIA
FROM SOUTH OF SAN DIEGO OF
INTEREST TO 13TH DEPARTMENT, KGB

Source was questioned in this matter in effort to obtain identifying data. He was unable to recall any additional info of value and explained that his recollection was *based* on brief examination of a paper which came across his desk with many others. Source repeated there is a possibility that captioned case is identical with the case involving an American whose occupation which was repairing pipes, and stated his recollections concerning this was also very vague. Source could not recall the case officer from the Seventh Department who handled captioned case.

UNSUB; CODE CLERK ALLEGEDLY
RECRUITED BY KGB MOSCOW, SPRING, 1960

Photograph of Sergeant CHARLES BRYANT was displayed to source who advised the face was familiar especially the characteristics, twisting of the mouth to one side, but advised he could not recall any circumstances which made his recollection of the picture possible. In view of the current status of NOSENKO he was not furnished with the facts in this case at this time.

AMERICAN PRIESTS IN MOSCOW - STUDIED BY KGB

Source advised that prior his departure from Moscow GENNADIY GRYAZNOV, the KGB official, who was then Chief of Section, had told him that two American priests in Moscow were being studied and that one was under consideration for approach on the basis of blackmail. GRYAZNOV told source that a Russian girl who is employed at American House is on very friendly relations with this priest and KGB has knowledge that he has carressed and fondled her and anticipates they may succeed in catching him having intimate relations with this girl in which case a recruitment approach will be made.

UNSUB; KGB AGENT ANDREY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

WFO 134-5437 Sub AX(u)

Source advised that REINER is the Head of Cosmos Tours, New York City, and described him as a very shrewd and foxy individual. He said he was known to VLADIMIR D. CHELNOKOV, who was Deputy Chief, Seventh Department (tourist), however, subject was not recruited by the Seventh Department and no effort was made to recruit him. Source described REINER as talkative and foxy and said he was suspected of being connected with American intelligence (FBI). Source stated REINER knew many important people, but he believed work on him was wasted. He recalled REINER's firm was the first to book a tour to Mongolia. He had negotiated with the Mongolian Republic for additional tours, but did not know whether he was successful.

SERGEANT JAMES MC MILLAN (u)

Source advised he was aware of the MC MILLAN case and stated although he did not know any details he understood MC MILLAN had assisted KGB and furnished everything he knew while at the American Embassy. He advised VADIM V. KOSOLAPOV visits him regularly and gives KGB funds in the sum of 500 rubles for a month. Source advised MC MILLAN is still married to the agent who assisted in his recruitment. Source identified this woman as VERA (LNU) and described her as a shy and decent girl. He said she had one son by MC MILLAN and also a child by a previous marriage. Source mentioned it was the task of the First Section (American Embassy), First Department (American), Second Directoriate, to take care of defectors such as MC MILLAN. (u)

ANNABELLE BUCAR(u)

Source advised he also was somewhat familiar with the case of BUCAR who was recruited on the basis of ideology and a love affair with KONSTANTIN LAPSHEIN, an actor agent of the First Department, whom she subsequently married. Source stated BUCAR has not been happy in her private life since her husband is a heavy drinker and has weakness for girls, but she is satisfied otherwise with her life in Moscow where she works for the Radio Committee as an editor handling foreign broadcasts and also does translations receiving good money. (u)

Photographs of members of the Bolshoi Ballet which visited the U.S. in 1962 were displayed to NOSENKO who identified three individuals, namely: (u)

- 6 -

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)