# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90124-10092

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DOMR

TO: HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 07/16/1965

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32335534 Page 1
26


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FBI

Date: 7-16-65

Transmit the following in

ia Airtel

To: Director, FBI

From: Legat, Santo Domingo (134-31) (BUC)

Subject: ANTONIO HECTOR RIVERO JUARRERO - PSI
IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Reference Buairtel dated June 28, 1965. Reference
also Santo Domingo teletype number 163, dated June 23, 1965,
captioned, "MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WARBELL, III, PSI."

Information received from the local office of CIA
(Central Intelligence Agency) on May 30, 1965, revealed that
subject, born in Havana, Cuba; 52 years; height 5'11"; weight
190 pounds; gray hair; brown eyes; married with no children;
is employed by the Cia. Dominicana de Seguros, a subsidiary of
AMADEO BARLETTA's Enterprises in Santo Domingo. The report
indicated that RIVERO had worked in the General Motors set-up
in Havana, Cuba, under BARLETTA. When CASTRO moved into Cuba,
RIVERO exiled himself to Miami. BARLETTA then offered RIVERO
a job in Santo Domingo and placed him in charge of the Division
of Insurance of BARLETTA's General Motors set-up. RIVERO was
described as a boisterious, gregarious type, who hits every
bar in town and who is extremely loud mouthed.

Files of the Dominican Immigration Service checked
on July 13, 1965, revealed that ANTONIO HECTOR RIVERO JUARRERO
has permanent Dominican Resident Visa 10349, issued to him for
the year 1965. He has had permanent resident status in the
Dominican Republic since 1962..

The file further indicated that he entered the
Dominican Republic at Santo Domingo on February 2, 1962, from
Miami, Florida. He was described as follows:

4 - Bureau
1 - Liaison Section
1 - Santo Domingo

AAC:wlg (5)

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Airtel to Director, FBI
RE: ANTONIO HECTOR RIVERO JUARRERO - PSI

DOB:
July 15, 1911
RACE:
White
COMPLEXION:
Light
WEIGHT:
175 lbs
HEIGHT:
5' 11"
EYES:
Brown
HAIR:
Gray
MARITAL STATUS:
Married
RESIDENCE:
Arzobispo Marino Number 30, Santo Domingo

JOHN CASSERLY (protect identity), correspondent for the American Broadcasting System who is known to this office, advised on July 11, 1965, that RIVERO is currently living with MITCHELL WARBELL.

This source advised that RIVERO is notoriously known as a "wheeler dealer." He has a number of different businesses all concerned with automobiles and automobile insurance. He has associated with BARLETTA who had the General Motors franchise in Havana, Cuba, for many years.

Source stated that RIVERO has a pleasant personality but described him as a heavy drinker and stated that RIVERO would do anything for money. He advised that RIVERO's wife is one EVANGELINA HERNANDEZ, a Cuban national. He further stated HERNANDEZ has relatives in Miami, Florida, and makes frequent trips to Miami. He advised RIVERO allegedly was mixed up in gambling enterprises but added that he had no proof of this.

Inasmuch as RIVERO is reported to be extremely loud mouthed and inasmuch as he is currently reported to be living with MITCHELL WARBELL, (who at one time was reported to be employed by CIA and who is currently characterized by CIA as a "wild man,") no further action is being taken with reference to developing this individual as a PSI.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)