2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 5/11/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10231
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-72630-5

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 10/02/1958
PAGES: 7
SUBJECTS: PDL, ADMIN, INSTR
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/29/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC LHM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Office Memorandum

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: AC, MIAMI (105-1598)

SUBJECT: PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ;
RENALDO BLANCO HERNANDEZ;
ALBERTO EUSEBIO MOJENA
IS - CUBA
00 - Miami

Enclosed herewith is report of SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER, Miami, dated and captioned as above, and Letterhead Memorandum.

## REFERENCES

San Juan airtel to Bureau, 8/27/58.
Miami tel to Bureau, 9/3/58.
Butel to Miami, 9/3/58.
Legat, Havana, telephone call to Miami 9/3/57.

## ADMINISTRATIVE

All information contained in instant report was provided to the United States Customs Office, Miami, on September 3,5,8, and 18, 1958, as instructed by reButel September 3, 1958.

This report is classified "Secret", inasmuch as information received from CIA, San Juan, was so[S] classified. This information is set forth in enclosed report under symbol number T-1.

## INFORMANTS:

| Identity of Source             | Date of Activity or Description of Information | Date Received | Agent to Whom Furnished | File No(JFK) Where Located |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------- | ----------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Bureau (Encl.22) (RM)          |                                                | BECID         | 105-726305              |                            |
| San Juan (97-92) (RM) (Encl.4) |                                                |               |                         |                            |
| 1 - Miami (109-26)             |                                                |               |                         |                            |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MM 105-1598



T-1 is
DAVID R. McCLAIN and DIAZ BLANCO and MOJENA
H&R Section, Ft. Brooke, Puerto Rico (C/A)
By rept dated 8/26/58 San Juan Office Instant report

T-2 is ONI FIGUERO
report dated 5/58 Bureau Instant report
5/14/58, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba

T-3 is Legat, Havana
Telephonic info re DIAZ and GOMEZ 9/3/58 HOWARD R. ALBAUGH Instant report

T-4 is MM 635-S
PEDRO DIAZ 9/3/58 GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR. Instant report

" MOJENA 9/2/58 "

T-5 is EDUARDO HERNANDEZ, Cuban Consul General, Miami
Aircraft N48Q 9/8,18/58 ROBERT JAMES DWYER "

T-6 is MM 639-S PEDRO DIAZ 9/3/58 " "

T-7 is BETTY UPDEGRAVE, Service Representative, Southern Bell Telephone & Telegraph Co., Miami.
Toll calls of RICARDO LORIE 9/18/58 LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR. "

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE
ON 6/27/97 NIS

NW 50953 DocId:32340838 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)