2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/5/2015

Agency Information
AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10236
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4546-9

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 10/24/1961
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: MR, MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO, ACA,
INTERNAL RESISTANCE
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM I FORMATION RE ORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains Information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
(When Filled. In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 5-12-94 BY SP8 MAC/

COUNTRY CUBA

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/490,978 (JFIC)

SUBJECT STATEMENTS OF MANOLA RAY, EXILE LEADER
OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT
DATE DISTR. 24 OCTOBER 1961

RECEIVED OCT 25 1961

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF OCTOBER 1961
INFO.

REFERENCES

PLACE & ENGLAND, LONDON (24 OCTOBER 1961)
DATE ACO.

FIELD REPORT NO. OEL-30,995

APPRAISAL 3

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM "SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG EXILES
IN CARACAS".

1. MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO
   DEL PUEBLO (MRP - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT) SAID IN
   EARLY OCTOBER THAT HE WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO ANY INVASION OF CUBA
   INSISTING THAT CASTRO'S OVERTHROW WAS TO BE ACHIEVED BY INTERNAL
   RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STARTED.

2. THE MRP WAS ORGANIZED THROUGHOUT THE ISLAND AND SUPPORTED
   BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. IT HAD MEMBERS IN ALL 33
   TRADE UNIONS, THE G-2, MILITIA AND THROUGHOUT THE ADMINISTRATION.
   RAY ESTIMATED 80 PERCENT OF POPULATION WERE ORPOSED TO CASTRO,
   THOUGH MAJORITY WERE NOT ACTIVELY SO, HE CONSIDERED THE MRP AT
   PRESENT ENJOYED MORE SUPPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
OCT 31 1961

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR FBI
I&NS TREASURY REPC INCLANT

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

![telegram information report telegram]

66 NOV 3 1961

97-4546


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL25 AN '61 TDCS -3/490;978 IN 11257
PAGE 2
HAD AGAINST BATISTA.
REC'D
DOM INTELL DIV.
3. THE MRP WAS PRESENTLY SHORT OF ARMS AND EXPLOSIVES BUT THE
POSITION WAS IMPROVING (A MILITIA CAPTAIN WAS RECENTLY
SENTENCED TO 30 YEARS IN PRISON FOR PASSING ARMS TO THE MRP).
NO HELP WHATSOEVER HAD BEEN RECEIVED BY THE INTERNAL RESISTANCE
FROM THE "SOURCES IN THE UNITED STATES, WHO PROVIDED SUPPORT
FOR THE INVASION". THESE SOURCES WERE STILL THINKING
INEFFECTUALLY IN TERMS OF A FURTHER INVASION.
4. THE GENERAL ATTITUDE OF THE RESISTANCE IN CUBA TOWARDS
THE EXILES WAS ONE OF INDIFFERENCE MOUNTING TO CONTEMPT FOR
SPECIFIC MOVES SUCH AS THE PROPOSED PROMOTION OF A CUBAN GOVT
IN EXILE. WHAT THE RESISTANCE WANTED WAS FUNDS AND THE RETURN,
BY INFILTRATION, OF TRAINED EXILES, PARTICULARLY COMMUNICATION
EXPERTS.
5. ON THE TIMING OF CASTRO'S OVERTHROW, RAY SAID CASTRO WOULD
NOT LAST ANOTHER YEAR. HE ADDED THAT THE SITUATION IN CUBA
IMMEDIATELY AFTER CASTRO'S DOWNFALL, WOULD BE DANGEROUS AND COULD
DEVELOP INTO A CIVIL WAR.
6. FIELD DISSEM: STATE. CINCLANT, CINCARIB.
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)