# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/21/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90140-10012
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-439769-302

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: BRENNAN
TITLE:
DATE: 09/03/1963
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
PERMANENT STUDENT COMMITTEE FOR TRAVEL TO
CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32338055 Page 1
14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GC

# Memoran

TO : D. J. BRENNAR

FROM : S. J. PAPICH

DATE: September 3, 1963

SECRET

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SUBJECT: PERMANENT STUDENT COMMITTEE
FOR TRAVEL TO CUBA
IS - C

Austin Horn, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised the Liaison Agent on August 30, 1963, that a reliable CIA source in Madrid, Spain, had been in contact with Mark Tischman, one of the American students who accompanied the group which recently visited Cuba. This contact took place on August 27, 1963, at which time Tischman Volunteered the following information to the CIA source:

Tischman identified the following students as "fellow travelers": Joseph Rex, Elena B. Fleming, John Milton, Don Ranmann, and Alberti Maher.

Tischman referred to Levi Laub as a "communist in ideology" but not a Party member. He stated that Phillip Luce is "a person of Marxist-Leninist tendencies"; that Michael Brown is a Trotskyite; that John W. Thomas is a decided partisan of the policy of Mao Tse Tung; that Eric D. Johnston is "of communist, ideology though not a Party member", that Clinton M. Jenks is "the/son of the number three ranking communist in California"; and that the only student in the group who is actually a member of the Party is Allan Sheffield.

ACTION: Possible C. P. Member

The above information is being directed to the attention of the Internal Security and Nationalities Intelligence Sections.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

1 - Mr. Baumgardner

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Simpson

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

SJP:gp (6)

11 SEP 5 1963

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR BRACKETS

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId: 32338055 Page 2
KP 3-19-98


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)