# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 3/20/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10058-10420

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-3385

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, LO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/23/1964

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: LHO, POST-RP, POSSIBLE CUBAN, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/14/1994

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: REFERRAL TO CIA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FBI

Date: 6/23/64

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via AIRTEL

TO DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

FROM LEGAT, LONDON (62-358) (RUC)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT
JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY 11/22/63,
DALLAS, TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

On 6/22/64 Mr. R. E. CARTER, CIA, London on a highly confidential basis, furnished the following information which comes from a tisur on the Cuban Embassy, London, operated by British Security Service, MI-5 and British Secret Intelligence Service, MI-6. This conversation occurred on 5/8/64 and was between MARIO RIVA RATTERSON, Counselor, Cuban Embassy, London and an unidentified male visitor, possibly a Colombian. The conversation was in Spanish and indistinct at times. Information is as follows:

The visitor after a question half of which is not heard asks if in the case of the assassination of KENNEDY if (?) FOSTER (ph and indistinct) was ever in Cuba. RIVA replies in the negative. He says that this man applied for a visa to go to Cuba at the Consulate in Tampico. He was refused a visa. Had he been to Cuba he would have had his passport

VISITOR: "A typical F.B.I. job"

RIVA: "A thing (una cosa) of the Imperialists - to kill him in the end - really disgusting

It is possible that the individual referred to above as FOSTER may have been OSWALD. Above furnished for the Bureau's information

3 - Bureau

1 - Liaison (sent direct)

1 - London

CWB:rn


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)