# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form

Date: 6/2/2015

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90135-10074

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82298-164

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 01/18/1963

PAGES: 28

SUBJECTS: ELOY GUTIERREZ ΜΕΝΟΥΟ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/19/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: SUMMARY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

CORRELATION SUMMARY

Main File No: 105-82298

Subject: Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo

Kiko Pernas*
One Gutierrez**
One Martinez***

Date: January 18, 1963

Date Searched: 10/26/62

![ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE]

All logical variations of subject's name and aliases were searched and identical references found as:

Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo
Eloy Guiterrez
Eloy Gaitierrez
Eloy Gut errez
Eloy Gutierez
Eloy Gutierres
Ely Gutierres
Elog Gutierrez
Eloy CGutierrez
Eloy Manoyo Gutierrez
Eloye Gutierrez
Ely Gutierrez
Gallego Gutierrez
Eloy Gutierrez Manoyo
Lazaro Martinez
Lazaro 0. Martinez
Lazaro Cristobal Florian Martinez
Lazaro Cristobal Florian Martinez Mendez
Lazaro Martinez Mendez
Lazaro 0. Martinez Mendez
Ely Gutierrez Henoya
Jeloy Gutierrez Menoy
Gutierrez Menoya

Eloy Gutierrez Henoyo
One Menbyo
Eloy Menoyo
Elog Gutierrez Menoyo
Eloy Guitierrez Menoyon
Eloy Guterrez Menoyo
Eloy Gutierez Meneyo
Eloy Gutierres Menoy o
Cloy Gutiirrez Menovo
Eloy Gutterrez Menoy o
Eloyo Gutierrez Menoy o
Ely Gutierres Menoyo
Ely Gutierrez Menoyo
Gallego Gutierrez Menoyo
Guterriez Menoyo
Gutierre Mebpy o
Gutierrez Menoyo
Eloy Guiterrez Menoyon
Eloy Monoya
Eloy Gutierrez Monoya
Ploy Gutierrez Monoya
Eloy Gutierrez Monoyo

![illegible text] 05RMBGA
Classified by ![illegible signature]
Declassify on 2/13/86
(JFA)

Also searched as One Gallego, see page 29 of summary.

(continued on next page)

THIS SUMMARY HAS BEEN FREPARED FOR USE AT THE SEAT OF GOVERNMENT AND IS NOT SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION.

Analyst

James F. Kline

JFK: jeb

Coordinator

Mary H. Elgin

Approved

Norman F. Stultz

*Gutierrez was alleged to have used the nickname Kiko Pernas. See serials 72 and 95 of main file (105-82298). See also 105-98002-1.

** Not searched, see page 56 of search slip.

***Not completely searched, see page 56 of search slip.

62 JAN 29 1963

NW 50953 DocId:32336679 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

MM 105-5948

organization rather than through file on GUTIERREZ MENOYO as an individual. Accordingly, Miami file 105-2102 (Bufile 105-82298) is being closed at this time and all leads regarding the II Front or GUTIERREZ MENOYO will be handled in 105-5948. For this reason a report was prepared at this time instead of the letterhead memorandum as requested in referenced Bureau letter.

- INFORMANTS -

| Identity           | Location                                |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------- |
| MM T-1 is MM 639-S | 134-238 Sub A-479 and 134-238 Sub A-478 |

- C* -
- COVER PAGE -

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32336679 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

Hector Peter Ordetx, 1802 Lamar St., Tampa, Fla., furnished on 1/26/62, a quantity of miscellaneous papers, some of which bore the name of Roberto De Los Rios (100-431672) and appeared to be correspondence between him and members of his family in Cuba. One of these papers was a carbon copy of a typewritten letter in Spanish to "Dear Father", dated 4/7/59, at Tampa, with no signature. The writer said that Nelson had written him asking for declarations of the committee in regard to Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo and his insidious declarations. No further information.

100-431672-27 p.16,17
(3,36)

Correlator's Note: It was noted that Roberto De Los Rios had a brother named Nelson.

Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas (100-344127) advised on 4/29/59, that he had heard that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo and William Morgan, former leaders in Sierra del Escambray, Second Front, were dissatisfied with the situation in Cuba.

100-344127-18 p.19
(3)

CIA Information Report, dated 5/19/59, revealed that Temistocles Fuentes Rivera (105-62455) stated that when Ernesto "Che" Guevara arrived in Las Villas Province, Cuba, during the revolution, he was in the zone of the Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray which was headed by Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo. Gutierrez and an armed troop met Guevara with drawn guns, accused him of being a communist and demanded that he and his men leave their area of operations.

105-62455-10 p.1
(3,36)

MM-635-S, employed by the Cuban Air Force, advised that on 5/20/59, Major Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, Major Pernas, and Major Armando Fleitas, all leaders of the Second Front of the Escambray, came to consult with Major Marcos Diaz Lanz, chief of the Revolutionary Air Force in Cuba. Gutierrez told Marcos Diaz that they had 400 men who were unemployed and whom they would like to put to work in order to keep them out of trouble.

109-599-6 Encl.p.1

SECRET

-5-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

On 3/18/59, Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, at a press conference, stated that his, organization* supported the Castro Government "as long as it lives up to the principles for which we fought", and that if it should deviate "we will take whatever steps circumstances dictate". He further stated that his group was 100% anti-communist.

On 4/20/59, Gutierrez left Havana to visit Miami at the invitation of Miami's Mayor, (source not clear).

Paul Bethel, Press Officer, U.S. Embassy, Havana, Cuba (protect identity), advised that Tony Beacon was appointed Gutierrez's press secretary on the above mentioned trip and Beacon was paid by Nick Bartone, an American who was attempting to sell C-74's (Globemaster I) to Cuba.

"The Havana Post ", dated 5/27/59, carried an article to the effect that the Second National Front of the Escambray (105-78831) had issued a statement which endorsed the Agrarian Reform Program of the Cuban Government. The statement was signed by Gutierrez, National Chief, and Armando Fleitas, Secretary General of the organization.

Add. info. according to PSI Hugo Gonzalez Lajonchere (protect identity).

105-78831-1 p.1,2
(5,38)

A Foreign Service Dispatch from the Department of State, dated 5/28/59, revealed that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo had told the Embassy in Cuba that the Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray (105-78831) was strongly anti-communist and would take action if necessary should the Government come under communist control or domination.

State also advised that a source, who had spent a month with the Segundo Frente under the command of Gutierrez, advised that the group was non-political and definitely not communist. Gutierrez felt that Fidel Castro had a number of communists among his advisors and he believed one of these was "Che" Guevara. Guevara had been joined by some of the members of the Segundo Frente, with Gutierrez's approval, but Guevara's followers had not been allowed to take arms with the Segundo Frente.

* Second National Front of the Escambray.

-6- SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET

Francisco Rodriguez Couceiro, 6424 S.W. 38th St., Miami, Fla., advised that the Crusade of Revolutionaries Against Communism (CRAC) had planned an invasion of the Isle of Pines, Cuba. In June, 1959, Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo and William Alexander Morgan, Commanders in the Cuban Army, were in contact with the Movimento Revolucionario Democrata in Havana, and this was known to the CRAC in Miami. Rodriguez had advised the group in Cuba and the anti-Castro movement in the Dominican Republic, not to trust either Morgan or Gutierrez because he considered them both to be loyal to Castro, and their cooperation with the group was for the purpose of entrapment.

Add. info. according to Rodriguez.

105-81502-7 p.20
(6,389)

A teletype from San Juan, dated 6/5/59, concerning Nicaraguan revolutionary activities, set out the following: "Second Front Escambray Forces under Commandant Ely Gutierrez Menjoya requested immediate dissolution from Government. Message conjectures that this may mean a breakaway from policies of July 26 and could mean participation in other revolutions." Not further clarified.

MM 685-S advised on 6/26/59, that Paul Hughes, an American pilot, flew for Commander Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo during the Cuban Revolution. Hughes was suspected of taking guns that were stored at Miami International Airport and which belonged to the Cuban Government. Hughes had come to Miami from Cuba on a mission for Gutierrez.

On 7/2/59, Sergio Diaz Brull, former advisor to the former Chief of the Cuban Air Force, advised that Gutierrez was sympathetic with the anti-Fidel Castro Movement and was waiting in the mountains of Cuba with approximately 2,000 men for instructions when to attack the forces of the Cuban Revolutionary Government.

105-79528-2 p.B, Encl.p.7
(5,389)

# SECRET

-7-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET

Department of the Army advised that in an interview with Florencio Pernas Lorenzo (105-98002) on 2/14/61, Pernas advised that from January to March, 1959, all he did was attend social and official gatherings in Cuba. During this period he made a trip to Miami, Fla. with Comandante Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo. In about July, 1959, he was requested by Gutierrez to participate in an action against Trujillo and Batista followers who were to attack Cuba. From 12/20-23/59, Pernas made a trip to Tampa, Fla., accompanied by Gutierrez to collect toys for needy children of the Escambray.

Pernas entered the U.S. with Gutierrez and planned to go to Miami and wait for orders of Gutierrez as to his future actions.

Add. info. according to Fernando Prio Hernandez, 1330 Southwest 12th Ave., Miami, Francisco Prio Socarras, 2200 Southwest 2nd Ave., Miami, Antonio Prio Socarras, 1001 Southwest 22nd St., Coral Gables, Fla., and duplicate informant.

105/-98002-11 p.4-6,8-10
(8,41)
SI 105-98002-2 p.2,3
(8,41)
SI 105-98002-9 p.3,4,6-8
(8,41) Add. info.

*Entered U.S. January, 1961

CIA advised that a meeting composed of anti-Franco elements and communists took place on 2/4/61, at the camp of the Spanish Liberation Army (Ejercito de Liberacion de Espana-ELE) on the Isle of Pines near Havana. Abderraman Muley More and his aide, Manuel Perez, leaders of DRIL (Iberian Revolutionary Directorate of Liberation) who had taken charge of ELE since the departure in late January, 1961, of Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, were threatened with expulsion from Cuba for resisting communist efforts to take over ELE.

109-587-47
(13,47)

Miguel Antonio Sanchez Ramos, who was interviewed in Room 615, Roger Williams Hotel, 28 East 31st St., NYC (not further identified) (Protect identity), and who had furnished reliable information in the past, advised on 1/27/61, that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, who was involved in the "double cross" of the Dominican Republic's attempt to overthrow Fidel Castro in August, 1959, had a price of $100,000 on his head, put there by Trujillo of the Dominican Republic.

105-93789-39 Encl.p.7
(7,40)

SECRET

-13-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

On 2/23/61, Cirita Lopez Cejas, residence, Miami, Fla., and a messenger for Manuel Ray and the underground, advised that Manuel Ray had helped Gutierrez Menoyo and the group who came with him, to escape from Cuba on 1/27/61. Lopez stated that she assisted in the arrange- ments for the defection and had hidden 5 or 6 of the revolutionaries in her home in Havana. She advised that Ray recognized that Gutierrez pulled a considerable amount of support and following as a former leader of the Escambray. He was considered a good campaigner and knew the Sierra Escambray Mountains extremely well.

$$ \begin{bmatrix} 113-7-210-252 \text{ Encl.p.7,8} \\ (51) \end{bmatrix}  \textcircled{A}(u) $$

The 2/1/61, issue of the "Miami Herald" carried an article entitled "Economic Crises Won't Topple Castro-Prio" in which Carlos Prio Socarras (109-430) stated his views on Cuba and Castro. Prio also expressed concern that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, the rebel commandante who had sought asylum in Miami, was still being detained by U.S. authorities: Guiterrez was an anti-communist, according to Prio.

$$\begin{aligned} &\begin{matrix} 109-430-2390 \text{ Encl.p.3} \\ (23) \end{matrix} \\ &\begin{matrix} SI \ 109-430-2395 \text{ p.10} \\ (23) \end{matrix} \end{aligned}$$

CIA Information Report, dated 2/10/61, revealed that a source who belonged to a group which assisted defectors to escape from Cuba, had been trying to get Humberto Sori Marin (105-93839) out of Cuba. The source visited Miami to determine whether the means of escape from Cuba had been compromised by Gutierrez Menoyo and his companions. He also wanted to determine if Sori would be interned as was Gutierrez, and how Gutierrez had learned about this escape route and how he was able to highjack the boats.

$$\textcircled{A}(u) \quad \begin{matrix} 105-93839-2 \\ (29) \end{matrix} $$

CIA furnished on 3/6/61, a memorandum captioned "DRIL Plans For Action In the Iberian Peninsula", which stated that the Iberian Revolutionary Directorate of Liberation (DRIL) planned to infiltrate a group from Portugal into the Sierra Morena mountain range. According to the secretary of DRIL leader Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, DRIL had a clandestine printing shop in Madrid. Field Comment: According to a 2/14/61 report from an official Spanish service, Gutierrez's secretary \textcircled{C} in Havana, said that DRIL leader Abderraman Muley More had commented that his plan had been to charter a boat to be used for clandestine landing in Spain or Portugal.

$$\textcircled{A} \quad \begin{matrix} 109-587-48 \text{ p.3} \\ (13,47) \end{matrix}$$

-14- SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

On 6/30/61, Ralph Huguet, former officer in the Cuban Rebel
Air Force, advised that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo and Max Edgardo Lesnick
Menendez (105-64869) resided with him at the Blue Bay Motel, Normandy
Isle, Miami Beach, Fla. Gutierrez desired to come to the Miami Office
for an interview. Huguet advised that to his knowledge, neither
Lesnick nor Gutierrez were involved in any acitvity or in any way
connected with the current Cuban government.

105-64869-11
(4/36)
SI 105-64869-12 p.1-3
(4/36) Add. info.

MM 639-S advised that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, a recently
defected military commander of the Cuban Revolutionary Army, and
closely associated with the Frente Revolucionario Democratico, a
leading anti-Castro organization, planned to attend, as an observer,
military demonstrations with maneuvers that were to be held at an
abandoned airport at Davie, Fla., on 7/1/61. These demonstrations were
held by the Revolutionary Junta of National Liberation (2-1683).

2-1683-3 Encl.p.2
(1/34)

MM 639-S advised on 7/2/61, that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, did
not attend the demonstration held on 7/2/61, at Davie Airport, Davie, Fla.,
by the Revolutionary Junta of National Liberation (2-1683).

2-1683-7 Encl.p.2
(1/34)
SI 2-1693-31 p.11
(2/35) (Add. info according to
Gerald Patrick Hemming, 1936 Southwest
3rd St., Miami, Fla.)
SI 2-1499-78 p.11
(1/34)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

Miami report, dated 10/4/61, revealed that MM-639-S advised that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo's father and brother were both known communists in Cuba and Eloy himself fought on the side of the communists in Spain in the 1930's. Eloy was further accused of being responsible for over 200 innocent people being put in jail in Cuba and having participated in the William Alexander Morgan affair at Trinidad, Cuba, in August, 1959. He was not well considered by Cuban nationals in Miami, had a bad reputation and was not generally trusted.

Add. info.

2-1693-39 p.1,3-7,11
(235)

Roger Redondo Gonzalez, 730 W. 11th Ave., Miami, Fla., advised on 11/13/61, that a captain Antonico (LNU), who furnished the transportation for a group of Cuban exiles to infiltrate Cuba in August, 1961, was in charge of contacting the Cuban underground for Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo.

Rafael Huguet Del Valle, Blue Bay Motel, 2070 Bay Drive, Miami Beach, Fla., advised on 11/13/61, that Antonico (LNU) was a fishing boat captain from Cayo Guillermo, Cuba, who was a member of the revolutionary movement of Gutierrez and who had contact with the underground section of this movement in Cuba.

Add. info. according to Huguet and duplicate informants.

2-1693-50 p.1-4,6
(2,35)

(NY 2965-S) advised that on 12/22/61, Herbert Matthews ("NY Times" correspondent) contacted Mario Garcia Inchaustegui (105-99238), Cuban Ambassador to the UN. Garcia asked Matthews if there was any news of the "invasion of my country". Matthews replied that there was nothing new, only "the ravings of that 'jerk' Gutierrez (probably Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo) and Miro Cardona" (anti-Castro Cuban revolutionary leaders).

[105-99238-26 p.1]
(841)

-19-SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECRET

Gerardo Gabriel Antonio Hernandez Perez (105-113456), residence, Miami, Fla., advised on 8/3/62, that he and many other Cubans had a poor opinion of Jose Miro Cardona, President of the Cuban Revolutionary Council, Manuel Ray Rivero, former member of the council, and Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, because they were once with the Castro regime and probably would have stayed if there had been sufficient opportunity for them to advance politically and financially. Ray was considered the most anti-American of any of the exiled leaders.

105-118456-1 Encl.p.7
(9/420)

On 9/12/62, Rene Dechard, 1174 S.W. 12th St., Miami, Fla., advised that Max Garcia (97-4345) had made phone calls to his home at various times in the past in attempts to locate Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo.

97-4345-35 p.1,2
(3/36)

CIA Information Report, dated 9/18/62, revealed that General Generoso Campos Marquetti, President of the Alliance For the Liberty of Cuba (105-114160), stated that the Alliance sought a unification of all elements, except those of the Castroite bloc whose "hands are stained with blood". Campos was adamant in refusing to accept anyone of the ilk of Gutierrez Menoyo (FNU).

Headquarters Comment: This probably refers to Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, Commandant of the former anti-Batista Second National Front of the Escambray, who took exile in the U.S. in January, 1961.

105-114160-2 p.3,4
(9/420)

MM 639-S advised that on 9/28/62, Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, Tony Cuesta and about 4 others attended a meeting in Miami, Fla., which was considered a meeting of Operation Alpha 66 (105-112098). Cuesta had lived at 2753 N.W. 13th St., Miami, and had been in contact with Gutierrez and a number of American soldiers of fortune and mercenaries. Gutierrez was last known to reside at 1126 S.W. 12th Ave., Miami, and it was not known if he was a member of Operation Alpha 66.

105-112098-40 Encl.p.5
(9/42)

-23- SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# SECRET

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

The following references on One Gallego, located in files maintained in the Special File Room of the Files and Communications Division, Records Branch, were not reviewed:(5)

REFERENCE

64-330-237-1545 (S) SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

64-330-239-825 (62)

The following reference on One Gallego was not available during the time this summary was being prepared:(5)

REFERENCE.

64-1200-1063 SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(62)

See the search slip filed behind file for other references on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set out in the main file. Differences in source and additional nonpertinent information will be noted on the search slip.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)