124-90137-10067 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 4/16/201
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10067
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-30972-68

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: LALLIER
TITLE:

DATE: 09/14/1960
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
PETROS MOUTSOS
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32337301 Page 1
4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Memorandum

TO : Mr. L'Allier

FROM : S. J. Papich

SUBJECT: PETROS MOUTSOS
INTERNAL SECURITY - GREECE AND CUBA

DATE: September 14, 1960

The subject was [utilized by Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) as an informant] in the communist-dominated Greek Maritime Organization, OENO. His past activities have been the subject of correspondence between us and CIA. During the past year, his usefulness to CIA had practically expired, primarily because of [subject's desire to remove himself from the OENO atmosphere](5)

On September 13, 1960, Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, advised that the subject is currently a crew member of the SS Radnor, which is scheduled to dock at New Orleans within the next two weeks. [CIA has had clandestine meetings with Moutos and is](5) now endeavoring to work out an arrangement whereby he can travel to Cuba and can serve as a source of information in that country. [In order to arrange for such travel, it will be necessary for Moutos to jump ship at New Orleans. This will be done with the approval](5) of Immigration and Naturalization Service. CIA will then hold conferences with Moutos and subject will thereupon proceed to Havana [under a cover being established for him.](5)

Prior to leaving for Havana, Moutos will endeavor to have contact with his wife, Angela Boyer, who is well known to us and who has a communist background. His marriage to Boyer [was actually promoted in order to improve his position in OENO](5). He has been separated from his wife for a lengthy period although she has indicated that she desires to live with him again. [CIA hopes that a resumption of relations between the two will help](5) Moutos [in establishing worthwhile contacts in communist circles in Cuba.](5)

SJP:bas

1 - Mr. Donahoe

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)