# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System
### Identification Form

Date: 4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90140-10071

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4196-432

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PAPICH

TO: LALLIER

TITLE:

DATE: 03/17/1961

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Memorandum

TO : Mr. L'Allier

FROM : S. J. Papich

**SECRET**

DATE: March 17, 1961

SUBJECT: FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE (FPCC)
IS - CUBA

On March 16, 1961, Mrs. Jane Roman, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), furnished the Liaison Agent the enclosed draft of an article which CIA proposes to plant in a leading United States publication, possibly the Saturday Evening Post. The material essentially consists of an attack against the captioned organization and includes some material which has been disseminated by the Bureau to CIA. According to Mrs. Roman, this data will be furnished to some well-known writer not yet selected.

She inquired if the Bureau had any objection to the use of its material, which has been noted and bracketed in the enclosure.

Mrs. Roman also advised that once arrangements are made to publish the article the Bureau will be given the opportunity to review the final draft before publication.

ACTION:

The above information and enclosure are being directed to the attention of the Nationalities Intelligence Section. The reply to CIA should be transmitted via Liaison.

SJP: ban
(5)
CLASSIFIED BY
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

1 - Mr. Donahoe

1 - Mr. Cotter

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

Enclosure

> [Figure: Handwritten word "ENCLOSURE" inside a circle.]

> [Figure: Handwritten text with signatures and dates.]

> [Figure: List of names including Tolson, Parsons, Mohr, Belmont, Callahan, Conrad, DeLoach, Evans, Malone, Rosen, Tavel, Trotter, W.C. Sullivan, Tele. Room, Ingram, Gandy.]

NW 50953 DocId:32338114 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)