# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/9/2015

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90065-10029
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-179869-31

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 10/18/1968
'PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS: RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32327743 Page 1
15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

18 OCT 1968

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: Libertad ANTIGUA Arrencibia
Suspect Cuban Intelligence Agent

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT FOR
THE BRACKETS
KP 2-2-98

1. Reference is made to Subject on whom considerable information has been disseminated to the Bureau, the last from this Agency being CSCI-316/03970-68 dated 9 October 1968.

2. Attached herewith is a copy of the 9 September 1968 debriefing of Libertad ANTIGUA Arrencibia which was provided by our Miami representative.

3. Information on the following individuals was compiled from the files of this office and from the files of a group of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques of information collection:

a. Manuel ABELEND Martin was born in Havana, Cuba on 17 April 1911. He is married to Elena RODRIGUEZ Regulez, a Cuban citizen. His parents were Juan ABELEND, a former Cuban Consul in Lisbon, Portugal, and Concepcion MARTIN. Both parents are deceased. Manuel's brother, Gonzalo ABELEND Martin, is employed at the Brazilian Consulate in Miami, Florida. Manuel was contracted to work for the Brazilian Embassy in Havana, Cuba from 1 January 1933 through the first part of 1963. He served as Vice Consul up until his departure from Cuba in 1963. His wife was also employed in the same Embassy. Since 1963, ABELEND has been in Paris, France reportedly serving as Consul in the Brazilian Embassy. According to a reliable source, he has traveled widely throughout Europe and Latin America. He is well educated, skillful and has a great deal of experience in clandestine

ENCLOSURE

SECRET

14 OCT 24 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Ост 21 9 27 АН "60
LIAISUN SECTION, FSI

FCOPIES MADE DATE 6/2//8 BY
CT
HSCA
(OLE NUTILE 12-111250)
DELIVERG
SOCIAL 3

NW 50953 DocId:32327743 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

-2-

activities as a result of his working in the Brazilian Embassy in Havana. Source also reported that ABELEND has a past history of assisting personnel to escape prosecution by the CASTRO regime. According to available information, ABELEND has, in the past, provided asylum to anti-CASTRO Cubans. ABELEND is currently of interest to our Agency.

b. Ana Maria ABELEND. From an article published in the Cuban magazine Bohemia, 1 October 1965 edition, page 41, it appears that one Ana M. ABELEND is a singer. The article mentions that her song is an Argentine tango, "Sin Ti No Se Vivir".

c. Gonzalo ABELEND Martin, the brother to Manuel ABELEND Martin, is an Attache in the Brazilian Embassy in Miami, Florida. He was born in Havana, Cuba on 1 April 1924. Our files indicate that from 1961 through 1963 Gonzalo ABELEND may have been a [sub-source and also provided assistance to a former asset of this Agency through the use of his Diplomatic position. ] The above is sensitive and restricted information. Our files indicate that the Department of State and the Immigration and Naturalization Service may have additional information on ABELEND.

d. A search of our files failed to reveal any pertinent identifiable information concerning fnu JUVENAL and Mario lnu.

e. All available information concerning the other individuals mentioned in the attached debriefing was previously disseminated to the Bureau in CSCI-316/03651-68 dated 13 September 1968, and CSCI-316/03970-68 dated 9 October 1968, Subject as above.

4. This information has been made available to your representative in Miami, Florida.

CSCI-316/03988-68

NW 50953 DocId:32327743 Page 4

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

8 OCT 1968

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: Libertad ANTIGUA Arrencibia
Suspect Cuban Intelligence Agent

1. Reference is made to Subject on whom considerable information has been disseminated to the Bureau, the last from this Agency being CSCI-316/03970-68 dated 9 October 1968.

2. Attached herewith is a copy of the 9 September 1968 debriefing of Libertad ANTIGUA Arrencibia which was provided by our Miami representative.

3. Information on the following individuals was compiled from the files of this office and from the files of a group of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques of information collection:

a. Manuel ABELEND Martin was born in Havana, Cuba on 17 April 1911. He is married to Elena RODRIGUEZ Regulez, a Cuban citizen. His parents were Juan ABELEND, a former Cuban Consul in Lisbon, Portugal, and Concepcion MARTIN. Both parents are deceased. Manuel's brother, Gonzalo ABELEND Martin, is employed at the Brazilian Consulate in Miami, Florida. Manuel was contracted to work for the Brazilian Embassy in Havana, Cuba from 1 January 1933 through the first part of 1963. He served as Vice Consul up until his departure from Cuba in 1963. His wife was also employed in the same Embassy. Since 1963, ABELEND has been in Paris, France reportedly serving as Consul in the Brazilian Embassy. According to a reliable source, he has traveled widely throughout Europe and Latin America. He is well educated, skillful and has a great deal of experience in clandestine

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

SECRET

DATE 7/11/95 56685LO/GCL

NW 50953 DocId:32327743 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

-2-

activities as a result of his working in the Brazilian Embassy in Havana. Source also reported that ABELEND has a past history of assisting personnel to escape prosecution by the CASTRO regime. According to available information, ABELEND has, in the past, provided asylum to anti-CASTRO Cubans. ABELEND is currently of interest to our Agency.

b. Ana Maria ABELEND. From an article published in the Cuban magazine Bohemia, 1 October 1965 edition, page 41, it appears that one Ana M. ABELEND is a singer. The article mentions that her song is an Argentine tango, "Sin Ti No Se Vivir".

c. Gonzalo ABELEND Martin, the brother to Manuel ABELEND Martin, is an Attache in the Brazilian Embassy in Miami, Florida. He was born in Havana, Cuba on 1 April 1924. Our files indicate that from 1961 through 1963 Gonzalo ABELEND may have been a sub-source and also provided assistance to a former asset of this Agency through the use of his Diplomatic position. The above is sensitive and restricted information. Our files indicate that the Department of State and the Immigration and Naturalization Service may have additional information on ABELEND.

d. A search of our files failed to reveal any pertinent identifiable information concerning fnu JUVENAL and Mario Inu.

e. All available information concerning the other individuals mentioned in the attached debriefing was previously disseminated to the Bureau in CSCI-316/03651-68 dated 13 September 1968, and CSCI-316/03970-68 dated 9 October 1968, Subject as above.

4. This information has been made available to your representative in Miami, Florida.

CSCI-316/03988-68

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)