2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90139-10002
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: PAPICH
TO: BRENNAN
TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 10/10/1963
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
 [Restricted]
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum SECRET

TO: Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr

FROM: Mr. S. J. Papich

DATE: 10/10/63

SUBJECT: MANUEL PINEIRO
IS - CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

We previously have been informed that the subject is a high-ranking official in the Cuban G-2 organization in Havana. On
10/8/63, Mrs. Anita Potocki, a CIA analyst who has been working on intercepted Cuban communications intelligence traffic advised the Liaison Agent that her Agency has come to the tentative conclusion that Pineiro's identical with Petronio, who has been mentioned in messages made available to the Bureau and CIA. We have noted that messages sent to the unidentified Cuban Agent in Panama referred to as "Roberto" have been signed by "Petronio".

Mrs. Potocki gave the following explanation which led to CIA's deduction.

Messages emanating from Havana indicated that one of the recipients was probably located in a small town in Colombia near the Venezuelan Border. CIA developed a suspect and instituted coverage. Recently, this individual transmitted a letter to Havana which communication was intercepted by CIA. The person had apparently violated instructions by including some sensitive data in the communication. Havana then transmitted a radio message castigating the Cuban Agent in Colombia. An examination of the the radio message and the intercepted communication sent by the Agent has led CIA to believe that "Petronio" is identical with Pineiro.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

Bufile 105-78656

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Dunn

1 - 65-67843 ("Roberto")

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)