# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 4/9/2015

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10098

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-99724-1

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: KEAY

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE: 06/10/1953

'PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: MR. A. H. BELMONT

FROM: V. P. Keay

DATE: June 10, 1953

SUBJECT: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY - INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM JAMES ANGLETON

SYNOPSIS:

James Angleton, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) official, is in charge of the Special Projects unit located in the Foreign (S) Intelligence division of CIA. During past year he has been very cooperative and has volunteered voluminous information of interest to Bureau. At the present time he more or less falls in category of Confidential Informant. In order to handle his material in a more efficient and secure manner, it is being recommended that a control file be created. Section Chiefs are also being alerted regarding the handling of information received from Angleton.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

1. It is recommended that the attached memorandum be disseminated to all Section Chiefs of the Domestic Intelligence Division, which sets forth instructions concerning the handling of information transmitted to the Bureau by Angleton.

2. It is recommended that a separate control file be created which will contain a copy of each "SP" memorandum which Angleton furnishes the Bureau. Such copies will be maintained in the file in numerical order and it will not be necessary to index the names. It is suggested that this file be entitled, "Central Intelligence Agency - James Angleton."

DETAILS:

James Angleton, a CIA official, is in charge of a section referred to as Special Projects, which is a part of CIA's Foreign


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Memo to Mr. Belmont

# SECRET

Re: Central Intelligence Agency
Information Received from James
Angleton

Intelligence division. Angleton handles special cases of a various nature and he is usually given considerable freedom and leeway in directing the operations of his unit. In general, he is responsible only to the Director of CIA. He has numerous foreign sources and channels for developing information. The primary source is the Israeli Intelligence Service.[^5] In addition to this, he is in contact with [^5] Jay Lovestone, who periodically makes available to Angleton copies of reports which Lovestone has received from American Federation of [^5] Labor representatives throughout the world. These representatives[^5] are associated with the Free Trade Union Committee, which is sub- sidized by the CIA. Angleton also has independent sources in the intelligence services of France, Italy, Greece, and Great Britain. On occasion he utilizes sources in the Vatican. Some of the men under his control are on various foreign assignments in Europe and are responsible only to him. Most of them are traveling under commercial cover.

During the past several months Angleton has been very cooperative with the Bureau. He has volunteered voluminous infor- mation of interest to the Bureau and he has followed Bureau leads in an effective manner. Much of the information which Angleton has furnished appears in the raw form, that is, it consists of the actual reports received from Angleton's sources. This has been of advantage because the Bureau has been in a position to better evaluate the information instead of waiting for the delay and processing through normal channels in the CIA. In addition to information regarding security matters furnished by Angleton, he has also been of valuable assistance by keeping the Liaison Agent apprised of administrative changes and reorganization within the CIA. Angleton is thoroughly informed regarding the foreign intelligence activities of his agency and he frequently clarifies matters which the CIA sometimes camouflages with some of its cloak and dagger techniques. [^4]

For your information, Angleton was instructed by General Walter Bedell Smith, while he was still Director of the CIA, to cooperate fully with the Liaison Agent and was told that he, Angleton, could disseminate any information he saw fit. This policy has continued under Allen Dulles.

Since the volume of information received from Angleton has increased the Liaison Agent has endeavored to encourage Angleton to establish some uniformity in the dissemination of information to

-- 2 --

# SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32313170 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Memo to Mr. Belmont

SECRET

Re: Central Intelligence Agency,
Information Received from James
Angleton

the Bureau, particularly with regard to that information which he receives from the Israeli Intelligence Service. 2 Angleton is now furnishing the Liaison Agent blank memoranda which are dated, captioned, and which carry a control number; for example, "SP-1." This number will serve as a ready reference when some question comes up within the Bureau or the CIA. The Liaison Agent will make an appropriate notation on each memorandum indicating that the documents emanate from Angleton. It is believed advisable to set up a control file containing a copy of each document furnished by Angleton. This can be done in a manner similar to the arrangement effected in handling reports received from [Stott.] (S)

In view of the above, Angleton more or less falls into the category of a Confidential Informant. He furnishes information of a sensitive nature and it is, therefore, believed that when disseminating his data, he should be protected as a source. Up to date Supervisors have been handling this information in a secure manner; however, since the volume of data received from Angleton has increased, it is believed desirable to alert all Section Chiefs regarding the handling of information received from Angleton.

NW 50953 DocId:32313170 Page 4

SECRET

- 3 -


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)