2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10357
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: DOS
TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 08/16/1963
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
HENRYK IGNACY JANIKOWSKI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT FOR BRACKETS
KP 5-18-98

16 AUG 1963

TO: Deputy Assistant Secretary for Security
Department of State

FROM: Deputy Director, Plans

SUBJECT: JANIKOWSKI, Henryk Ignacy
DOB: 4 Sept. 1921
POB: Wiele, Bydogoszcz, Poland

1. Reference is made to the name check request, dated 18 June 1963, subject as above, whose name you desired checked against the files of this office. The files contain the following information concerning Subject.

2. According to a report dated 23 March 1961 from an official West German service, the Bremer Bank in Bremen, Germany, reported that they had received a check for one thousand dollars from one Eduardo Espinosa y PRIETO of the Mexican Embassy in Moscow, USSR, to be deposited to the account of one Erik SCHOTT, an architect residing at Ginsterweg 1, Bremen Munthe, West Germany.

3. On the basis of this information, SCHOTT was interrogated by the West German service on 21 November 1961 for possible intelligence involvement. During the interrogation, SCHOTT provided the following information concerning Subject:
   SCHOTT first became acquainted with Subject in 1940 when he resided in Subject's home in Germany. Subject, who had moved to Poland, wrote to SCHOTT in 1957 and asked him to buy used cars and ship them to him. Subject transmitted to SCHOTT dollars and dollar checks for purchasing the cars via an unknown Polish sailor. Subject told SCHOTT that he had obtained the money on the black market and from exhibitors at the Poznan Fair. SCHOTT believed that Subject obtained the money from Poles who had relatives in the United States. During a visit to Belgium in 1957, Subject purchased several second-hand taxis and cars for shipment to Poland. Subject visited SCHOTT in late 1957 and purchased a Renault to take back with him to Poland. For the purpose of avoiding the customs duty on the car, SCHOTT gave Subject a statement to the effect that he was a relative.

FBI INTO
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/CSR
DECLACCITY

SEP 4 1963

NW 50953 DocId:32337591 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

In 1959 SCHOTT visited Subject in Gdansk, Poland. Subject
told SCHOTT that he could obtain dollars from "an employee
of an embassy" which he would send to SCHOTT for desposit
in his account at the Bremer Bankk. Subject obtained the
dollars for zlotys at the black market exchange rate. SCHOTT's
wife, who was also interrogated, stated that checks arrived
by mail from an employee of the Mexican Embassy in Warsaw,
Poland, which her husband deposited in Subject's account.
Among documents obtained officially from the Bremer Bank was[^5]
a letter from Mexican Ambassador in Warsaw, Eduardo ESPINOSA
Y PRIETO accompanying a check for one thousand dollars for[^5]
deposit to the account of Erich SCHOTT. Subject told SCHOTT
that in 1950 his maid had reported to the Polish authorities
that he had dollars in his house. As far as SCHOTT knew,
Subject was investigated but was never sentenced. On 24 June
1961, Subject again visited SCHOTT and from Germany went to
Zelzate, Belgium, to settle a debt from automobile buying
operations in 1957. Subject visited his sister in Paris,
France, and returned with her to Bremen in a new Peugot which
he had bought in Holland in his sister's name. Subject then
shipped the car to Poland.

4. According to the West German service[^5] no evidence
   was uncovered that would indicate SCHOTT was involved in
   intelligence activities.

CSCI-3/777,478

Encl. 1 name check

CC: Federal Bureau of Investigation

[^5]: unclear if this is a footnote or simply a mark on the page


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)