124-90137-10488 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10488
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 07/27/1961
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL
[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32337722 Page 1
17


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

FBI INFO 7-10-98
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR 27 JUL 1961
TO: Director 25X 16 RECEIVED FROM
Federal Bureau of Investigation (JFK) JUL 28 1961
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich CIA SJA

FROM: Deputy Director, Plans

SUBJECT: Eduardo Espinosa y Prieto, born 24 January 1909 in Mexico City, Mexico

1. This Agency was queried recently by the BfV (Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz - Federal Agency for the Protection of the Constitution) Germany for information on Subject. A German citizen in Bremen, suspected of Polish Intelligence Service activities, received a $1,000.00 deposit in his account from Espinosa.

2. Your permission is requested to pass the following information, some of which was obtained from your files, to the German authorities:

Eduardo Espinosa

(born 24 January 1909, Mexico City, Mexico, appointed Mexican Ambassador to Warsaw during the summer of 1960. August 1957 to summer 1960 accredited to the United Nations Headquarters in New York City with the rank of Ambassador as an Alternate Permanent Delegate. During his New York City tenure, he was known to write bank drafts to persons known to be active Communist workers. It was suggested that he was used as a means of financing Communist Party activities He appears to be a Soviet contact, and that his wife, one

Tamara Espinosa, nee Pechkurova, native Russian

was reported to have been an agent of the Soviet security services. She was admitted to Mexico in September 1947. When Espinosa y Prieto was in Mexico, he was in close touch with the Soviet Embassy and expedited visas for Soviet delegations. The couple were particularly friendly with Soviet Ambassador Kapustin during 1953. Mrs. Espinosa's brother died in a Soviet prison in 1953, and her mother still resides in the USSR.

These facts might indicate a Soviet hold over Espinosa. Various opinions collected from persons who knew Espinosa, when he served in Shanghai, Bogota, Mexico, Caracas, Togoland, and the U.S., vary from basically friendly to the U.S" to the following: That he had been a penetration agent in the Axis group (in Shanghai) on behalf of the

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR BRACKETS

REC-52 105-24642-45

22 AUG 3 1961

SECRET 105-24642

![CIA logo]

NW 50953 DocId:32337722 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

-2-

USSR, that he was 100% pro-Communist and most dangerous, that he has been an eagerly cooperative contact of the Soviets in Mexico for several years, and so on. The bulk of opinions are derogatory in nature. Petrov identified Mrs. Espinosa as an MVD agent.

CSCI-3/766,521

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)