# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form

Date: 5/27/201

### Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10296-10130

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 163-1504-7

### Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: DIRECTOR, CIA

TITLE:

DATE: 03/23/1970

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: WHJ, ASSOC, RCK, IDENT, BKG, AKA, MIL SERV, EMP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

NW 50953 DocId:32308802 Page 1

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

EX. - 106 REC-35

(RI) 163-1504 7

SECRET

Date: March 23, 1970 1 - Mr. Michela

To: Director CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Central Intelligence Agency DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR

Attention: Deputy Director for Plans BRACKETS ON PG.

2

KP 10-10-97

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director 1-17-98

Subject: GEORGE HOOVER PRATT CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD /USR

INTERNAL SECURITY LAOS

ALL INFORMATION CONTARACIAL MATTERS

CLASSIFY ON: 25X

NERGIN TO WNCLASSIFIED (JFK)

WHERE SHOWN

WISE Reference is made to your request dated March 10,

1970, and to my letter dated November 21, 1969, concerning

captioned individual, your file B-956.

There is enclosed one copy each of the fingerprint

cards of captioned individual and James Warren Smedley, who

may be identical with the James Warren Smedley mentioned in

your request of March 10, 1970.

It is noted that you were furnished two copies of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation Identification Record

concerning George Hoover Pratt, by my letter dated

November 21, 1969. A review of the files of this Bureau

disclosed no Identification Record identifiable with

James Warren Smedley or William Herman Jackson, also

known as Jack Karl lawborn, who were also mentioned in

your request of Harch 10, 1970.

Tolson JCM:djw/ekwe 2

DeLoach 10/27/77 JTM/ma

Walters SEE NOTE PAGE TWO HSCA ne William H. Jackson

Mohr See Bufile 801-/2

Bishop

Casper reg: 10/20/77

Callahan

Conrad Jar

Felt Jem

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Soyars

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

NW 50953 DocId: 32308802 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

While no Identification Record concerning James Warren Smedley was located, the enclosed fingerprint cards concerning Smedley and Pratt may be of assistance to you in making record checks through [official Thai] sources. (5)
The enclosed fingerprint cards and the copies of the Identification Record which were furnished to you by my letter dated November 21, 1969, may be utilized by you in checking [official Thai] sources concerning the (5) individuals mentioned above. In making such checks, you must insure that the [Thai officials] clearly understand (s) that it is your Agency which is making the record checks and that such checks are not in any way being made for this Bureau.

Enclosures - 2

NOTE:

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) previously checked the names of Pratt, Jackson, and Smedley through Bureau files. CIA has advised that Pratt had reportedly attempted to get people out of Vietnam into Laos where these people could be trained and shipped to the United States to assist in the "Black Movement." By memorandum dated 3/10/70, CIA furnished additional identifying information concerning Jackson and Smedley and requested copies of fingerprint records. CIA requested to be advised if those records could be provided to [official Thai] sources in(S) order to facilitate checking certain [Thai] records which would otherwise be unavailable.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

B-956
10 MAR 1970

SUBJECT: George Hoover PRATT

Reference: A. Our memorandum of 11 February 1970, Subject as above.

B. Your letter dated 21 November 1969, Subject: George Hoover PRATT, Internal Security - Laos, Racial Matters.

1. Our representative in Vientiane, Laos has provided the following additional information concerning Herman JACKSON and King SMEDLEY mentioned in paragraph 1A of reference A:

a. Herman JACKSON is believed to be identical with William Herman JACKSON, also known as Jack Karl IAWHORN, who was born on 24 November 1926 in Dothan, Alabama. JACKSON is a retired United States Army Master Sergeant who now owns Jack's American Star Bar in Bangkok, Thailand. He carries United States passport number 2539419.

b. King SMEDLEY is believed to be identical with James Warren SMEDLEY, negro male born on 3 October 1922 at Roanoke, Virginia. SMEDLEY served in the United States Air Force. He carries United States passport 2424089.

2. Please provide us with copies of the fingerprint records of Subject and William Herman JACKSON. Please advise us if we may provide these records to official Thai sources in order to facilitate checking certain Thai records that would otherwise not be available.

EX. - 106 REC-35

PLEASE TRANSMIT REPLY VIA LIAISON, MR. S. J. PARISH 163-1504-7

MAR 24 1970

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)