# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10103
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-99724-74

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: BRENNAN
TO: SULLIVAN
TITLE:
DATE: 03/17/1965
'PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum SECRET

TO: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM: Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.

DATE: 3/17/65

SUBJECT: BUREAU INFORMANT 100

In 1954, a procedure was approved whereby we could attribute certain information received from James Angleton, CIA, under the symbol "Bureau Informant 100." This information, for the most part, emanated from a Liaison arrangement which CIA maintained with the Israeli Intelligence Service and from other sources under the control of Angleton. Much of the information developed by Angleton was not disseminated within CIA but he felt that the data should be passed on to the Bureau. Allen Dulles gave him authorization to handle dissemination in this matter. We continue to receive information of value on a regular basis.

By SAC Letter 54-27 dated 5/25/54, we informed the field regarding Bureau Informant 100 and issued instructions that information from this source be described under an appropriate T symbol and characterization. Because of the passage of time and since some offices have had rare occasion to receive Bureau Informant 100 information, it is believed desirable to reiterate instructions to the field. This should be done since the Informant has been developing information in recent months regarding the travel of U. S. citizens to Russia via Israel. Such travelers come from various parts of the U. S.

ACTION:

If approved, there is enclosed herewith a recommended SAC letter.

Enclosure:

1 - Mr. Belmont

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Branigan

1 - Mr. R. W. Smith

1 - Mr. Baumgardner

1 - Mr. Bland

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

SJP:chs

(10)


NW 50953 DocId:32313175 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)