# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10046

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-7-210-7584

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: USSS

TITLE:

DATE: 03/15/1976

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: OBA, ASSOC, PEREZ, PALOMERA IGNAZIO, TRA, US, ATTEND, FATHER'S FUNERAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 09/15/1998

UPDATE DATE:

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

NN NNVV EIA 171
RR RUFBI
DE RUEA IA #0344 0752147
ZWY SSSSS
R 152017Z MAR 76
FM CIA
TO RUEISSQ/SECRET SERVICE//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
INFO RUFBI/FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
BT
SECRET. CITE CIA 822.742.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION
MAR 15 1976
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT.
EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKERS JM 6-25-97
VISA APPLICANTS-Cuba

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED --NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS
SUBJECT: PALOMERA PEREZ, IGNAZIO.
DPOB: 16 MARCH 1940, HAVANA, CUBA.

REF: SECRET SERVICE ADVANCE SAN JOSE 105, 21 FEBRUARY 1976.
CIR-316/01060-76

1. ACCORDING TO AN OFFICIAL NICARAGUAN SERVICE, IGNAZIO
   PALOMERA PEREZ OBTAINED A NICARAGUAN EXIT PERMIT ON MAR 17 1976
   1976 FOR TRAVEL TO THE UNITED STATES. THE DATE OF HIS PROPOSED

![photo of stamps and signatures]

NW 50953 DocId:32301711 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)