# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 4/17/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90137-10467

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89457-9

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PAPICH

TO: LALLIER

TITLE:

DATE: 06/26/1961

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

JORGE BELIARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

UNITED STATES GOVERP ENT

Memorandum

TO : Mr. L'Allier

FROM : S. J. Papich

SUBJECT: JORGE BELIARD(C)
PSI(C)
IS - CUBA

DATE: June 26, 1961

Tolson
Belmont
Mohr
Callahan
Conrad
DeLoach
Evans
Malone
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Ingram
Gandy

The captioned individual is a station manager of the Cubana Airlines, Idlewild International Airport, New York City. Recently Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) submitted a name check request concerning Beliard. Liaison was requested to determine the purpose of this request(C)

On June 23, 1961, Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, advised the Liaison Agent that a Cuban source had suggested to CIA that Beliard possibly could be of some use to the Agency in connection with its operations in Cuba. Mrs. Roman stated that essentially CIA's interest would be to obtain assistance from Beliard in arranging courier routes between Cuba and the United States.(C) CIA is of the opinion that Beliard through his contacts in the Cubana Airlines and because of his possible association with individuals who travel regularly between the two countries, could arrange for CIA (to communicate with clandestine sources inside Cuba.(C) The Liaison Agent requested CIA not to establish any contact with Beliard pending further word from the Bureau.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention of the Nationalities Intelligence Section for appropriate review. We can either (1) inform CIA that no contact whatsoever should be made by CIA with Beliard in view of current Bureau operational(C) interest, or (2) we can permit CIA to maintain contact with Beliard for exploration of its interests as described above, or (3) we can talk to Beliard concerning the potential for establishing courier routes and serve as the intermediary if Beliard is in a position to be of assistance in this regard. Replies to CIA should be handled via Liaison

SJP: ban base
(5).

1 - Mr. Donahoe

1 - Mr. Dunn

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

NW 50953 DocId:32337701 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)