157-10011-10092 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date:10/06/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10092

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM : ROETHE, JAMES N.
TO : FILE

TITLE :
MARCHETTI, VICTOR

DATE : 03/28/75
PAGES : 84

SUBJECTS :
TESTIMONY OF MARCHETTI, VICTOR
APRIL 3, 1975

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

SSCI Box 294, Folder 11

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId: 32203860 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

XJFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10011-10092
RECORDS SERIES:
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: ROCKEFELLER COMMISSION
FROM: ROETHE, JAMES N.
TO: FILE

TITLE:
MARCHETTI, VICTOR

DATE: 03/28/75
PAGES: 84

SUBJECTS:
TESTIMONY OF MARCHETTI, VICTOR
APRIL 3, 1975

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

SSCI Box 294, Folder 11

Date: 10/06/93
Page: 1

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

TOP SECRET

met him, I only saw him on the TV a few months ago, he looks
like a broken man, he did that day anyway. But he was a very
mysterious, very --

MR. OLSEN: To use the house term, he was a spook?

MR. MARCHETTI: Yes. He was a very exotic character. And
all kinds of stories float around about Jim Angleton. And
I am sure that some are nothing more than apocryphal and some
are pure rumor.

What intrigued me about this Runge thing is that
subsequently another reporter -- and this time the guy identi-
fied the man he had been talking to -- the man he had been
talking to was Bill Harvey, who was one of the people respon-
sible for exposing Philby, in fact Philby gives Harvey the
credit in his book under a pseudonym -- that Harvey said to
this guy, oh, yes, the Agency -- to this reporter -- yes, the
Agency has been penetrated, it may even, be now -- he made some
pompous statements of that nature. But then when the guy tried
to dig deeper, Harvey held him at arm's length.

MR. OLSEN: Who is Harvey?

MR. MARCHETTI: Bill Harvey was a scenario officer.

He had been, among other things, Chief of Base in Berlin during the Cold War.

He had been Head of the Cuban task force.

MR. OLSEN: Which Cuban task force do you refer to now? The one that was organized --

MR. MARCHETTI: Within the Agency, the Agency's own

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

TOP SECRET

1 Soviet defectors and peoplw who claim to be and have subse-

2 quently been found to be legitimate defectors.

3 MR. MARCHETEI: You mean found to be illegitimate

4 defectors?

5 MR. OLSEN: No, found to be legitimate defectors

6 well, either way.

7 MR. MARCHETTI: Well, they would turn up from time to

8 time. Usually I didn't have any direct dealings. They were

9 handled by the Clandestine Services. But you would know the

10 case. There is the famous case of Olenevski (?) who is this

11 Polish intelligence officer who said that he was a KGB plantin

12 the Polish service, and he is the one that many people on the

13 extreme right like to point to as having identified all kinds

14 of agents within the US Government. Eventually I got to the

15 point where the was taking out ads in the newspapers to the

16 effect that he is the tsaravitch, he had survived the shooting,

17 and the legal claim and the throne.

18 At this point you don't know if the guy was nuts all

19 along, and I don't know what the official thinking about it

20 at the Agency is.

21 But there have been anumber of others over the years.

22 There is Golonevski

23 MR. OLSEN: How do you spell his name.

24 MR. MARCHETTI: G-O-L-O-N-E

25 These names are a matter of record. You will have

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

TOP SECRET

defecotrs which you believe to be questionable as to whether
or not it comes within the charter of the CIA?

MR. MARCHETTI: No.. As I say, I have no first hand
knowledge on this subject.

You remember the Minev-Rouse case?

MR. OLSEN: Yes. You mentioned that in your book, I
believe, don't you?

MR. MARCHETTI: I was in the Agency at the time that
happened, but I knew practically nothing about it in the Agency
For one reason, I didn't pay any attention to it. I had no
reason to. But it was after getting out of the Agency.

This happened to be a case where Rouse, under Agency
orders, was directed to Miney as being a Soviet agent in the
Estonian group, And Minev apparently to this day claims
absolute innocence, and said that he was framed, and it was
done for other reasons, because he didn't see eye to eye with the
Agency

MR. OLSEN: You don't know the story behind that, I
take it?

MR. MARCHETTI: No. But you could find out. I don't
know what the Agency was doing. All I know is that Helms
submitted some sort of affidavit which the judge accepted, and
on the basis of that the case was resolved in favor of Rouse.

He had to idneitify Rouse as being in the Agency's employ and
acting under orders from the Agency. The reasons why, they are

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

TOP SECRET

69

seem to work properly except in the US. And I am wondering what

kind of use in the US you might be aware of?

MR. MARCHETTI: That wasn't what I meant by that.

What I meant was, it worked good under laboratory conditions here, but when I would take it out to the field, it wouldn't work.

MR. ROETHE: You weren't referring to any use of these beams here in the US?

MR. MARCHETTI: No, I was not.

But that is that system that people are talking about now, the laser people bugging system, where they can get a building across the street there and direct a beam here and pick it up. It has become quite popular in recent years, at least they talk about it.

MR. OLSEN: You mean in the spy literature?

MR. MARCHETTI: Yes.

MR. ROETHE: At page 196 you refer to monitoring of embassy traffic from Maryland and Virginia. Were you referring to CIA's activity in monitoring, [or NSA?]

MR. MARCHETTI: [NSA]

MR. ROETHE: You are not aware of any CIA activity of this nature?

MR. MARCHETTI: No, not here in this country. [ln]

fact, the only case that I was aware of overseas that the CIA did it, if they did it at all, they did it because NSA, for

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

TOP SECRET

certain-political reasons, the Government didn't want NSA in there, the military personnel

MR. ROETHE: There is one reference to breaking into embassies at page 199. And there is no reference to any particular embassy. Are you aware of any activity where the CIA was actually implicated in breaking into an embassy? You have already talked about the Cilean Embassy.

MR. MARCHETTI: This was based on information that was availabe in the Houston Plan, which by that time had become public. And also certain background information about the capabilities of the NSA in its technical field, and certain CIA clandestine abilities. And it was all rolled into one as a supposition.

MR. ROETHE: On page 207 you indicate that many individuals at CIA were pressing for action against the KGB here in the US as the FBI was not doing a good enough job?

MR. MARCHETTI: Yes.

MR. ROETHE: Do you know of any actual operations that were ever taken by teh CIA, or do you have any evidence of such operations?

MR. MARCHETTI: No, I do not.

MR. ROETHE: On page 216 you refer to training of New and Chicago police. What kind of training are you referring to, or do you know?

MR. MARCHETTI: That is just it. I am not exactly sure

TOP SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)