# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System
## Identification Form

## Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10011-10048

RECORD SERIES: TRANSCRIPT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE: TESTIMONY OF ROBERT MAHEU

DATE: 07/30/1975

PAGES: 95

SUBJECTS: ACCOMPANIED BY COUNSEL: GALANE, MORTON R.

GIANCANA, SAM

WIRETAPS

MAHEU, ROBERT

ROSELLI, JOHNNY

MAFIA CONNECTION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1A; 1B; IC; 3; Donor Restricted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/19/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: SSCI Box 252, Folder 5

v9.1

NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 1

Date: 7/30/201


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

157 - 10011 -
10048

NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# TOP SECRET

tape b
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

19

1 am not too far off in what I am about to tell you. The contract
2 was structured in such a way that as the bottoms of other
3 companies became obsolete, they could only be replaced with
4 Onassis' tankers. Even ARAMCO had to, by attrition, within a
5 period of four-and-a-half to five-and-a-half years, would have,
6 if their tankers became obsolete, they could only be replaced
7 by Onassis tankers.

8 Our statistics, after having studied the contract and
9 making what we considered to be proper projections, indicated
10 that at the completion of approximately five-and-a-half years,
11 Mr. Onassis would control more dead weight tonnage than the
12 United States controlled in its entirety, that he would control
13 on the high seas annually more oil by tens of thousands of
14 gallons more than were used by all of the Allied nations during
15 the most severe year of the Korean War, that in the first year
16 his profit would be approximately $17 million dollars, that
17 after five-and-a-half years his annual profit would be in the
18 area of $200 million.

19 While this analysis is going on, we also found that a
20 million dollar pay-off had been made to one of the top ministers
21 in Saudi Arabia and we had the evidence out of the Swiss bank
22 accounts, in other words, contrary to what a lot of people
23 believe that they can't be broken, even in those days, they were
24 broken and we had the evidence with all of the documentation.

25 We then prepared our inputs and presented them to the

NW 50955 DocId:32203816 Page 3

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

TOP SECRET

20

1 National Security Council --

2 Senator Huddleston. Of the United States?

3 Mr. Maheu. -- of the United States, and within a matter,

4 I believe, of forty-eight hours, our State Department

5 denounced the agreement. It was the first time that anyone

6 had actually seen what this meant, and frankly, there was an

7 innate fear that with the initial $17 million, then there would

8 be no way of stopping, I mean, he might go to Venezuela and

9 do the same thing, and there were also other inputs about the

10 background of Mr. Onassis that I would just as soon not make

11 a matter of record, but they were not too favorable, that we

12 presented to the National Security Council verbally but not

13 in writing.

14 Mr. Madigan. Who made the presentation?

15 Senator Schweiker. What subsequently happened then with

16 the Security Council denunciation, et cetera?

17 Mr. Madigan. The State Department denounced the agreement

18 and that same evening we were told that two of the top-CIA

19 officials were on their way to Saudi Arabia.

20 Then I proceeded to dig up the gentleman by the name of

21 Carl Twitchell by virtue of reading about the country, because

22 I'm not about ready to go there and not know about the customs

23 and the formation of the country. I dug up a man by the name

24 of Carl Twitchell who was living in Connecticut who turned out

25 to be the first American who had ever really been accepted by


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

20

1 National Security Council --

2 Senator Huddleston. Of the United States?

3 Mr. Maheu. -- of the United States, and within a matter,

4 I believe, of forty-eight hours, our State Department

5 denounced the agreement. It was the first time that anyone

6 had actually seen what this meant, and frankly, there was an

7 innate fear that with the initial $17 million, then there would

8 be no way of stopping, I mean, he might go to Venezuela and

9 do the same thing, and there were also other inputs about the

10 background of Mr. Onassis that I would just as soon not make

11 a matter of record, but they were not too favorable, that we

12 presented to the National Security Council verbally but not

13 in writing.

14 Mr. Madigan. Who made the presentation?

15 Senator Schweiker. What subsequently happened then with

16 the Security Council denunciation, et cetera?

17 Mr. Madigan. The State Department denounced the agreement

18 and that same evening we were told that two ![redacted information]

19 officials were on their way to Saudi Arabia.

20 Then I proceeded to dig up the gentleman by the name of

21 Carl Twitchell by virtue of reading about the country, because

22 I'm not about ready to go there and not know about the customs

23 and the formation of the country. I dug up a man by the name

24 of Carl Twitchell who was living in Connecticut who turned out

25 to be the first American who had ever really been accepted by

NW 50955 DocId:32203816 Page 5

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

TOP SECRET

1 old King Saud. Mr. Twitchell had spent time in the country
2 as a mining engineer to help them in the exploitation of
3 mines. It was in fact to Carl Twitchell that the old king gave
4 the power of attorney to come to the United States government
5 or come back to the United States and try to form a consortium
6 for the exploitation of oil from which emanated ARAMCO.

7 Carl was the type of man who was only reimbursed for his
8 expenses. I think his total expenses were slightly in excess
9 of $8,000. He didn't even keep the banking and percentage
10 for himself, or a piece of the action, so to speak, and he was
11 highly, highly loved by the Saudis and although the old king
12 was then gone and King Saud, the son, was in power, Mr
13 Twitchell had the same respect and reverence from the present
14 leaders as he did from the father and I convinced Mr. Twitchell
15 that -- he already had a clearance, a satisfactory clearance,
16 and I convinced him to precede me to Saudi Arabia to try to
17 lay the groundwork.

18 Senator Schweiker. What year was this, roughly?
19 Mr. Maheu. This, I believe, was in '54 or '55, yes.
20 Anyway, I finally ended up going to Saudi Arabia, having
21 a meeting with the King's confidential assistant, presenting all
22 of this evidence, frankly at the time not knowing if the King
23 himself had a piece of the action --
24 Senator Huddleston. Had some of this evidence come from
25 the wiretap?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Maheu. That tap was entirely unproductive, entirely

2 unproductive.

3 Senator Schweiker. What happened then at your meeting?

4 Mr. Maheu. Well, it's very interesting, if we could take

5 a little time, I mean, I was scheduled to have the meeting

6 "with the King," but he doesn't show, he stays somewhere else

7 and the confidential assistant shows up and one trusted

8 minister that he had with Carl Twitchell present.

9 And my meeting was scheduled for 8:00 p.m. one night, and

10 this happaned to be the last day that the King was supposed to

11 be in Jidda, he was then leaving for the capital further

12 inland, Jidda being the only major port in Saudi where he

13 spends his summers, and they were having a big parade for him,

14 and from the balcony of the hotel, I'm watching the parade go

15 by, and finally the King's car comes and he is arm and arm with

16 the nan on whom I'm going to give the evidence that night, and

17 I frankly was not too comfortable, particularly in view of the

18 fact that in those days -- and I don't know whether it has

19 changed, but in Saudi, the same document did not give you

20 permission to enter and leave; you had to make application for

21 an exit visa after you arrived, and I was in constant contact

22 with the then-United States Ambassador. He made it very clear

23 that the government approved of everything I was doing, but if

24 something went wrong they could not come to my rescue, I would

25 have to be the fall guy, and I was prepared to do it. That was

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# TOP SECRET
25
Saudi Arabian government would have its flag flying the high
seas, and at the time that all of this is going on they are
building what then, upon completion of production, had been
the biggest tanker in the world at that time, a ship named
after the old King, a tanker which was scheduled to go and take
a maiden flight and take off, and it turned out the biggest
problem that we had was to find a save-face gimmick. But
finally the whole thing was accomplished, and it took two and
a half years to do it.

Senator Schweiker. I didn't mean to get you off the
track.

Mr. Maheu. Well, I'm sorry I am so verbose.

Senator Huddleston. You said you bought a paper in
Athens? You mean by that you actually bought the paper or just
paid them to run the story?

Mr. Maheu. We bought a newspaper.

You'll have to understand, Senator, that in Rome, in those
days, there were fifty newspapers. I mean, the big circulation
in those days, big circulation in Rome was 20,000. It's hard
for us to visualize that.

Senator Huddleston. The CIA supplied the money to buy
the newspaper?

Mr. Maheu. Yes.

Can we go off the record?

Senator Schweiker. Yes.
# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

TOP SECRET

Mr. Liebengood. Was this listening post that you referred to, was that a project that was related to work for the Central Intelligence Agency?

Mr. Maheu. I don't believe it was.

Mr. Madigan. Did you have any New York assignments other than Onassis that you gave to Frank?

Mr. Maheu. I don't remember any.

Mr. Madigan. How about Thomas Evans? I may have asked you that yesterday. Do you recall whether he had any relation- ship with your company during the 1950's?

Mr. Maheu. I don't remember a Thomas Evans, Thomas Evans?

Mr. Madigan. A CIA employee.

Mr. Maheu. I don't recall his name.

Mr. Madigan. I got sidetracked off of my question of whether you recall a prosecution or an investigation of the Onassis wiretap. You may have already have answered that.

Mr. Maheu. I think I did, yes.

Mr. Madigan. What did you say?

Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I appeared before a Grand Jury that was investigating Mr. Frank on another matter.

Mr. Madigan. On another matter, but you had no recollection of any investigation of that particular tap?

Mr. Maheu. No, I don't.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# TOP SECRET

31

1 Mr. Madigan. Either an investigation of you or Frank or

2 Leone or anyone?

3 Mr. Maheu. No, I don't.

4 Mr. Madigan. No interviews by the FBI?

5 Mr. Maheu. It's conceivable, but I don't remember it.

6 Mr. Madigan. You don't remember it?

7 Mr. Maheu. No.

8 Mr. Madigan. Let's go off the record.

9 (Discussion off the record.)

10 Mr. Madigan. Did there come a time when you were asked

11 by the Central Intelligence Agency to be involved in a

12 project which would involve sending a woman by the name of

13 Florence Horn over to a foreign country?

14 Mr. Maheu. Yes, sir.

15 Mr. Madigan. And what were you asked to do with regard

to that?

17 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I was asked to find

18 a woman, preferably From Los Angeles, who would agree to go to

19 a foreign country and under some pretext try to meet the

20 leader of the country and hopefully change his basic philosophies

21 which at the time were thought to be detrimental to the United

22 States, and that they were very, as a result, very seriously

23 jeopardizing the national security of the government of the

24 United States.

25 Mr. Madigan. Did you find such a woman?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

TOP SECRET

32

Mr. Maheu. Yes, I did.

Mr. Madigan. And did the Agency sponsor her trip overseas that is the CIA?

Mr. Maheu. I placed her in touch with a representative of the CIA. He made certain commitments, financial commitments to her. At the completion of the assignment, she claimed that she had additional funds coming to her which I paid out of my own pocket, so that I guess a more accurate way of saying it is that the Agency and I sponsored her trip.

Mr. Madigan. Did she ever get to meet the foreign leader whom we will call A?

Mr. Maheu. I do not have any recollection.

Mr. Madigan. You don't know whether she did or she didn't?

Mr. Maheu. I don't have any recollection.

Mr. Madigan. Do you know how long she was gone?

Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that she was gone for several months:

Mr. Madigan. And this person is the woman I referred to earlier by the name of Florence Horn, is that right?

Mr. Maheu. That is correct.

Mr. Madigan. Now can you date that assignment as sometime in 1956 or '57, does that sound about right, or do you have any recollection of what year it was?

Mr. Maheu. I don't have any recollection. It was before

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1 1960.

2 Mr. Madigan. It was sometime after you had begun in '54

3 with your Agency operation?

4 Mr. Maheu. That is correct.

5 Mr. Madigan. Or your sponsorship?

6 Mr. Maheu. That is correct.

7 Mr. Madigan. Subsequently, did this Leader "A" come to

8 the United States to your knowledge after this?

9 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall whether he came subsequently or

10 prior to.

11 Mr. Madigan. When the same leader did come to the United

12 States, were you involved in any assignment for the CIA with

13 regard to his presence in the country?

14 Mr. Maheu. Yes, I was.

15 Mr. Madigan. And what was that assignment?

16 Mr. Maheu. I was told by the State Department and the

17 CIA that this leader would be in need of female companions and

18 that the government was very much concerned that the type of

19 women that would be secured for him might eventually be very

20 destructive to the national security of the United States

21 government unless said women had been cleared by local police

22 departments in several of the cities in which he was scheduled

23 to travel.

24 Mr. Madigan. Who was the Agency representative that gave

25 you this assignment? Did you go through Mr. O'Connell, or was

NW 50955 DocId:32203816 Page 12

# TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

33


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# TOP SECRET

34

1 it someone different?

2 Mr. Maheu. This request emanated from, directly from the

3 State Department.

4 Mr. Madigan. Who in the State Department?

5 Mr. Maheu. Mr. Scott McCloud, who was then Director of

6 the Office of Security and Consular Affairs.

7 Mr. Madigan. Was it coordinated with the CIA, or was this

8 strictly between yourself and the State Department?

9 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that the CIA was kept

10 apprised, however that the coordination was with the State

11 Department, in connection with the security that was being

12 provided for this leader during his visit to the United States.

13 Mr. Madigan. Did you meet with the State Department or

14 CIA people or both in New York City when the leader arrived there?

15

16 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I met with Security

17 Personnel of the State Department.

18 Mr. Madigan. What did you do in New York for this

19 assignment?

20 (Pause)

21 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall.

22 Mr. Madigan. And did you meet with the New York police

23 with regard to the assignment?

24 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall.

25 Mr. Madigan. Did you obtain or send over any females over

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# TOP SECRET
35
1 to the hotel that person A was staying at?

2 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall.

3 Mr. Madigan. Do you recall telling me yesterday that you
4 did send girls over there?

5 Mr. Maheu. No, I don't.

6 Mr. Madigan. Did you travel from New York to any other
7 city with this leader?

8 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I did.

9 Mr. Madigan. What occurred when you arrived at the other
10 cities?

11 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I contacted the
12 security representatives of the State Department.

13 Mr. Madigan. And after you contacted the security
14 representatives, what were you supposed to do in these other
15 cities?

16 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I, through local
17 Police Department officials or law enforcement officials made
18 certain that the women who would gain access to the leader's
19 suite werer such that they would mot be a security risk insofar
20 as the national security of our government was concerned.

21 Mr. Madigan. Were these women that would not be a security
22 risk be women who the Police Department had some relationship
23 with?

24 Mr. Maheu. I don't know what you mean by relationship,

25 Mr. Madigan.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

TOP SECRET

36

Mr. Madigan. You indicated in our discussion yesterday that the women that were allowed access, as you put it to this Leader "A" were to be women that the police would have some control over so that they would not be a possibility of a later blackmail problem with the United States government, is that not correct?

Mr. Maheu. That is my recollection, yes.

Mr. Madigan. Did you participate in sending these women or providing these women over to the hotel where the leader was staying?

Mr. Maheu. I don't recall.

Mr. Madigan. Do you recall telling me yesterday that you did?

Mr. Maheu. No, I do not.

Mr. Madigan. Do you recall telling me yesterday when I asked you whether someone had travelled from city to city, you indicated that you thought maybe one did, but you weren't sure about how many others.

Mr. Maheu. That is correct.

Mr. Madigan. How many cities did you visit during the trip that this Leader "A" made?

Mr. Maheu. Several cities.

Mr. Madigan. Now were the women that were provided known to you or represented to you as prostitutes in any of these cities?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

TOP SECRET

37

1 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall.

2 Mr. Madigan. Do you recall telling me yesterday that they

3 were?

4 Mr. Maheu. Do you recall yesterday identifying the

5 leader?

6 Mr. Madigan. I do..

7 Let's go off the record.

8 (Discussion off the record.)

9 Mr. Madigan. According to your understanding, Mr. Maheu
of the project that you were involved in with the State
Department in providing the women to this foreign leader in the
various cities starting from New York and going through the
other cities he stayed at, do you believe the women that were
sent over to his hotel were prostitutes?

15 Mr. Maheu. That they may have been, yes.

16 Mr. Madigan. And you did particpate under instructions
of the government, to send these women over to his hotel or to
make them available to him at his hotel, not knowing what
happened after they got to the hotel?

20. Mr. Maheu. That is correct.

21 Mr. Madigan. And that occurred in New York and the other

22 cities that he stayed at while he was in the United States?

23 Mr.Maheu. That is correct.

24 Mr. Madigan. And as far as these women travelling with
you From city to city, your recollection is that one may havel--


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

TOP SECRET                                                                        38

1  Mr. Maheu. No.

2  Mr. Madigan. But, you did not bring a crowd of six or

3  seven.

4  Mr. Maheu. I have no recollection that *any woman* travelled

5  with me, may have travelled independently, but I have no

6  recollection of being on the same plane with any of these

7  people.

8  Mr. Madigan. You think may have traveled from city to

9  city, or four or five?

10 Mr. Maheu. One may have gone to one further city. That

11 is the best of my recollection.

12 Mr. Madigan. *And the others that were provided in each

13 city were sort of local, so that they could be controlled,*

14 *more or less, by the local police?*

15 Mr. Maheu. That's my recollection.

16 Mr. Madigan. Is that the theory of the project?

17 Mr. Maheu. That's my recollection.

18 Mr. Madigan. *Now with regard to this same leader, did*

19 *you ever receive an assignment from the CIA to produce any*

20 *film with regard to him?*

21 Mr. Maheu. Yes, I did.

22 Mr. Madigan. Do you remember when that assignment was

23 in terms of whether it was before or after this visit to the

24 United States?

25 Mr. Maheu. Subsequent to his visit to the United States

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# TOP SECRET

39

1 he made a trip to Russia. Our inputs were to the effect that

2 he brought back from Russia with him an attractive, Russian

3 agent, and that his philosophies relative to the united States

4 began to change appreciably and that the security of the United

5 States was in great jeopardy as a result of whatever influence

6 this female agent was able to have upon him.

7 Mr. Madigan. As a result of that, what assignment did you

8 receive, if any, from the CIA?

9 Mr. Maheu. As a result, I was asked if - well, as a

10 result I was provided with pictures reflecting the quarters

11 allegedly reflected the quarters to which she was assigned

12 during his trip to Russia, photographs of the female agent

13 and I was asked if I could find some contacts in Los Angeles

14 who could produce a set resembling the headquarters reflected

15 ron the pictures, a woman who looked like the female agent, a

16 male who looked like the leader, and take some pictures

17 subsequently showing them together within the confines of the

18 alleged headquarters.

19 Mr. Madigan. Did you recruit anybody to be in this

20 film?

21 Mr. Maheu. Yes, I did.

22 Mr. Madigan. Who was that?

23 Mr.Maheu. I recruited a man who was working for me in

24 Tucson, Arizona by the name of Charles Kays, a female agent

25 who was known to - I mean a female who was known to the law

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

TOP SECRET

40

1 enforcement authorities in Los Angeles, and who resembled the

2 Russian female agent.

3 Mr. Madigan. Did you ever advertise in the newspaper for

4 that film?

5 Mr. Maheu. I have no recollection. I can't believe that

6 where you would find the proper subjects, I don't believe so

7 no.

8 Mr. Madigan. Did the CIA provide the set for that, or

9 did you do the backdrop and all that business making it look

10 like it was in Moscow?

11 Mr. Maheu. The CIA provided me with photographs, and I

12 secured the services of a person in Los Angeles who was in the

13 industry on behalf of the CIA,

14 Mr. Madigan. Was that Bautzer?

15 Mr. Maheu. No, sir.

16 Mr. Madigan. Who was that?

17 Mr. Maheu. 'First I discussed the matter with Howard

18 Hughes and he recommended that I contact Mr. Larry Crosby, which

19 I did.

20 Mr. Madigan. Did Hughes have to approve your being

21 involved in this?

22 Mr. Maheu. I am not sure he had to approve. I was just

23 seeking his advice.

24 Mr. Madigan. You were more or less just telling him about

25 it?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1 Mr. Maheu. I beg your pardon?

2 Mr. Madigan. You were just telling him about it?

41

3 Mr. Maheu. No, Mr. Hughes had been in the industry, he

4 had been in movie studios, I thought he could be helpful to

5 this contract.

6 Mr. Madigan. Did you deal with O'Connell with regard to

7 this contract or with somebody else?

8 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that I dealt with Mr.

9 O'Connell and Colonel Edwards.

10 Mr. Madigan. Colonel Edwards?

11 Who was this person the female who was known

WARD & PAUL

12 to

13 Mr. Maheu... I really don't remember. The one and only

14 time I have seen her in my life.

15 Mr. Madigan... could this film have been described as a

16 pornographic film, or was it something less than that?

17 Mr. Maheu. By today's technology, I would say definitely no.

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

19 Mr. Madigan. You say this woman was known to the law

20 enforcement authorities. Was she suspected by yourself to be

21 a prostitute?

22 Mr. Maheu. Not at all

23 Mr.. Madigan. Not at all?

24 Mr. Maheu. Not at all.

25 Mr. Madigan. She was just an actress of some kind?

NW 50955 DocId: 32203816 Page 20

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# TOP SECRET
42
1 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall, but my recollection is Sho

2 was highly respected by the law enforcement authorities.

3 Whether she was an informant for them or what the relationship

4 was, I don't know.

5 Mr. Madigan. So you produced one film? One filme

6 cannister as a result of this, movie film?

7 Mr. Maheu. Very short.

8 Mr. Madigan. Did you make any still photographsor

9 Manything like that?

10 Mr. Maheu. No, I did not.

11 Mr. Madigan. And then you turned the film over to the

12 CIA?

13 Mr. Maheu. That is correct.

14 Mr. Madigan. And thereafter do you know what happened

15 to it?

16 Mr. Maheu. No, I do not.

17 Mr. Madigan. Were you told what was going to be done

18 with it?

19 Mr. Maheu. I was told that the stills would be distributed

20. Hin the country of the leader in an attempt to embarrass him

21 and hopefully as a a result remove what was considered to be a

22 Very serious threat to the national security of our country.

23 Mr. Madigan. Were you ever familiar with the project names

24 that were attached to these assignments by the CIA?

25 Mr. Maheu. Not that I recollect, no.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# TOP SECRET

43

1 Mr. Madigan. Did you ever hear of project Happy Days?

2 Mr. Maheu. No.

3 Mr. Madigan. Or Project Harp Star?

4 Mr. Maheu. No.

5 Mr. Madigan. Or Project Norfok?

6 Mr. Maheu. No.

7 Mr. Madigan. Did you have an occasion to receive an
assignment from the CIA with regard to the leader of another
foreign country, who we will refer to as Leader "B"?

10 Mr. Maheu. Yes, sir.

11 Mr. Madigan. What was your assignment in that regard?

12 Mr. Maheu. I was told that said leader would be visiting
Los Angeles, that he was enthralled with Hollywood and asked
if I could find someone to have a party, preferably in a
private home, with a reasonably large attendance on his behalff
during his trip to Los Angeles.

17 Mr. Madigan. And who did you contact with regard to that?

18 Mr. Maheu. I contacted Mr. Gregson Bautzer.

19 Mr. Madigan. Is that B-a-u-t-z-e-r?

20 Mr. Maheu. B-a-u-t-z-e-r, a Hollywood attorney.

21 Mr. Madigan. And did he hold the party that you refer to?

22 Mr. Maheu. Yes, he did.

23 Mr. Madigan. Was part of your assignment to line up a
woman who was to try and associate herself with this leader?

25 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that the intent was to

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

TOP SECRET

44

1 have young movie starlets present at the party, but I do not

2 have any recollection of receiving any instructions stating

3 that, for instance, one specific person was to be his date, if

4 that's what you're

5 Mr. Madigan. So your understanding was to have a number

6 available at the party, that's all. Not to have anyone --

7 Mr. Maheu. To have the party, period.

8 Mr. Madigan. Not to introduce one to him?

9 Mr. Maheu. That is correct.

10 I did not go to the party, I do not know who all was

11 there. I do recall that there were quite a few people present
and again, my recollection is that since this particular

13 leader was enthralled with Hollywood that the intent was to

14 have present people who -- with whom he would have an opportunity

15 to converse concerning his interests in the movie industry,

16 and the making of movies, and talk to not only starlets, but

17 I believe that some male stars were also invited to the party.

18 Mr. Madigan. As a result of the party, did the leader

19 associate himself with one particular female?

20 Mr. Maheu. I was subsequently told that as a result of

21 the -- having met a young starlet at the party, that he

22 subsequently invited her to spend time with him in his country.

23 Mr. Madigan. Were you ever asked to be involved in

24 providing a house in Long Island for him to stay at with this

25 particular female?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# TOP SECRET

45

1 Mr. Maheu. I have no recollection that I was asked.

2 Mr. Madigan. Do you know who that person was?

3 Mr. Maheu. I do not recall the name.

4 Mr. Madigan. You indicated that your recollection was that there was some embarrassment later on with regard to this female?

5

6

7 Mr. Maheu. I was subsequently told that at a subsequent date after he had taken this person with him to his country there was some embarrassment because it turned out that the Leader was from an Arabic country and that the young starlet was of Jewish extraction.

8

9

10

11

12 Mr. Madigan. Was your assignment in that regard solely to set up the one party was that the end of it?

13

14 Mr. Maheu. That is my recollection of it, yes.

15 Mr. Madigan. Did you have any other assignments with regard to that Leader "B"?

16

17 Mr. Maheu. I have no recollection.

18 Mr. Madigan. Did you have any other assignments with regard to Leader "A"?

19

20 Mr. Maheu. I have no recollection that I did.

21 Mr. Madigan. Did you undertake any other Agency assignments with regard to any other leader of any other country?

22

23 Mr. Maheu. I have no recollection that I did.

24 Mr. Madigan. Does the name Susan Cabot mean anything to you with regard to that assignment in Los Angeles?

25

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

TOP SECRET

46

1 Mr. Maheu. That name is familiar, yes, now that you

2 mention it.

3 Mr. Madigan. Do you think she might have been the person?

4 Mr. Maheu. I think she might have been, yes.

5 Mr. Madigan. Did you contact Howard Hughes with regard

6 to that assignment?

7 Mr. Maheu. No, I did not. However, Mr. Bautzer was, in

8 those days, Mr. Hughes' personal attorney.

9 Mr. Madigan. Would you date that party assignment as

10 being around 1959?

11 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall. It was before 1960, but that

12 would sound approximately right.

13 Mr. Madigan. Did you ever have your office in Washington

14 used for cover purposes by the CIA?

15 Mr. Maheu. Yes, I have.

16 Mr. Madigan. Do you know on how many occasions?

17 Mr. Maheu. On several occasions.

18 Mr. Madigan. Do you know what the purpose of the agent

19 that would be using it for cover was?

20 Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that my role was limited

21 simply to fund their income. In other words, they would be on

22 the payroll of Robert A. Maheu Associates and that I would be

23 reimbursed the exact amount of their payroll.

24 As to the specific assignments, I have no recollection.

25 Mr. Madigan. What types of duties would they have for

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

TOP SECRET

51

1 an employee who was working in *Ecuador* at some point in their
2 career?

3 Mr. Maheu. Yes, we did.

4 Mr. Madigan. Would you recall that to be around 1968,

5 or do you have a specific recollection?

6 Mr. Maheu. It would be about that time.

7 Mr. Madigan. About that time.

8 Mr. Maheu. Yes.

9 Mr. Madigan. And did you ever hear of the name *Peletier* with regard to that cover arrangement? *P-e-l-e-t-i-e-r*?

11 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall. My recollection is that the
12 guy's name was *Mike Marrage or Mihrage* but I don't recall
13 the name *Peletier*. Perhaps he was placed on the payroll as
14 *Peletier*, but I don't recall.

15 Mr. Madigan. You did not address him as *Peletier*?

16 Mr. Maheu. No, not to my recollection.

17 Mr. Madigan. What was he supposed to be doing in *Ecuador*,
18 do you know?

19 Mr. Maheu. Covertly or overtly?

20 Mr. Madigan. Both.

21 Let's start with covertly.

22 Mr. Maheu. Covertly he was -- he had an assignment from
23 the Agency which I don't know. Overtly he was an employee of
24 Robert A. Maheu Associates trying to exploit the possibility
25 of business ventures in the country of *Ecuador*.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

TOP SECRET                                                                                 52

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1   Mr. Madigan. You have no inclination or no feeling at
2   all for what his assignment was?

3   Mr. Maheu. No, I do not.

4   Mr. Madigan. In covert terms whether it was an espionage
5   assignment or whether it was a PR kind of assignment? No idea?

6   Mr. Maheu. I don't know..

7   Mr. Madigan. Was there ever an island involved with that
8   assignment to your knowledge?

9   Mr. Maheu. Not to my knowledge or recollection.

10  Mr. Madigan. You never heard of an island called

11  Peletier have you?

12  Mr. Maheu. Not to my recollection.

13  Mr. Madigan. During the 1960's did you employ a fellow
14  by the name of Jack Buckley? We may have discussed this
15  before.

16  Mr. Maheu. I believe that from time to time a Jack
17  Buckley did work for Robert A. Maheu Associates. I don't
18  believe he was an employee.

19  Mr. Madigan. Would he be on a kind of an intermittent
20. contract basis like Frank was? You would use him every once in
21  awhile?

22  Mr. Maheu. My recollection is that he did some work for
23  Robert A. Maheu Associates and, as I say, not an employee.

24  Mr. Madigan. Do you know what types of assignments he
25  did?

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003
NW 50955 DocId:32203816 Page 27

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Liebengood. Mr. Mort Jackson?

2 Mr. Maheu. I don't remember his name.

3 Mr. Madigan. Mort Jackson being an attorney --

4 Mr. Liebengood. -- in Los Angeles.

5 Mr. Al Long of the Secret Service?

6 Mr. Maheu. Don't remember his name.

7 Mr. Liebengood. formerly of the Central Intelligence Agency, a resident of Florida.

8 Mr. Maheu. Don't remember his name.

9 Mr. Liebengood. Mr. Jack Stewart?

10 Mr. Maheu. Don't remember his name.

11 Mr. Liebengood. James McCord?

12 Mr. Maheu. Only what I saw in the newspapers.

13 Mr. Liebengood. But you had no dealings with him while you were in Washington?

14 Mr. Maheu. Not to my recollection.

15 Mr. Madigan. Just briefly, in that regard, we discussed yesterday whether you had any recollection of Mr. McCord

16 being involved -- or at least I think we discussed it -- in any either sweeping of your office or electronic equipment or

17 using of your office as a listening post or anything like that?

18 Mr. Maheu. I don't remember.

19 Mr. Madigan. And your indication was you didn't have any recollection?

20 Mr. Maheu. No.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

77

1 payroll, and for the second time I was turned down by Mr.

2 Hughes. I believe it was in September of 1969 that I finally

3 called Mr. Meier in and requested his resignation and then

4 I informed Mr. Hughes that he had resigned.

5 After the departure of Mr. Meier, while going through his

6 files, Mr. Ellson ran into some documents that indicated some

7 very serious double escrows on mining properties and we

8 recommended to Mr. Hughes that all the information be made

9 available to the authorities and let the chips fall where they

10 may.

11 Mr. Liebengood. Do you know why Mr. Hughes was not inclined

12 to follow your recommendations with regards to Meier's termina-

13 tion at earlier dates?

14 Mr. Maheu. He was afraid that Meier would embarrass him.

15 At least, that is what he told me.

16 Mr. Liebengood. You are aware of no CIA interest in

17 Meier?

18 Mr. Maheu. The only thing I know is that Meier was cut

19 in on the cover of Mike Mibrage in Ecuador and was aware of

20 that operation.

21 Mr. Liebengood. How did that come about? How was he

22 cut in on that?

23 Mr. Maheu. Because it was he who initially had worked on

24 a deal for a venture in Mexico on the part of Hughes Aircraft

25 for cable television and subsequent to -- well, when that

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

50955 DocId:32203816 Page 29

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

TOP SECRET                                                                                   78

1 collapsed, the person who was to be the partner of Hughes
2 Aircraft in that particular venture threatened to sue Howard
3 Hughes and all of the Hughes interest for non-fulfillment of
4 contract, and I made a recommendation to that person whose
5 name slips my mind, but I believe his last name was Jamie,
6 J-a-m-i-e or something like that, I don't recall. But to try
7 to discourage him from filing such a lawsuit I suggested that
8 he and I put up $10,000 in Ecuador and check into the
9 possibility of developing business there.
10 I put up my ten, he never put his up, and Meier was the
11 one who was involved. But when the Agency needed a cover for
12 an assignment in Ecuador, Meier was made privy of this by the
13 Agency.

14 Mr. Liebengood. Just to be certain I understand, this
15 was because of Meier's role in reestablishing the operation
16 in Ecuador? Is that correct?

17 Mr. Maheu. Well, of trying to save the lawsuit, yes.
18 That's right.

19 Mr. Liebengood. And you think the name of this would-be
20 partner was Jamie?

21 Mr. Maheu. I don't remember whether that was the first
22 name or last name.

23 Mr. Liebengood. How did Mihragen whatever way do you
24 spell his last name, do you recall?

25 Mr. Maheu. I don't recall.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

TOP SECRET

79

Mr. Liebengood. Do you know who accompanied Meier and F. Donald Nixon on this trip to the Dominican Republic, the celebrated trip?

Mr. Maheu. No, I do not.

Mr. Liebengood. As far as you know, they had nothing to do with any Agency interest in that?

Mr. Maheu. No, sir, not as far as I know.

As a matter of fact, it's my recollection I found out about this afterwards.

Mr. Liebengood. Who else was witting of the cover arrangements that you had with the Agency through Robert A. Maheu Associates? You mentioned Meier and this particular one. Did you have other employees who were witting of the cover?

Mr. Maheu. I believe Bill Staton was aware of some of it.

Mr. Liebengood. And did he keep your books?

Mr. Maheu. Yes.

Mr. Liebengood. And outside of the Mihrage cover, Meier was not witting of any other cover arrangements, I take it?

Mr. Maheu. Not to my knowledge.

Mr. Liebengood. Do you recall who the other personnel were through the years that obtained Robert A. Maheu Associates cover for the Agency?

Mr. Maheu. I don't.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)