# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System
### Identification Form
Date: 7/7/2015

## Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10133

RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-39

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 03/25/1976

PAGES: 40

SUBJECTS: SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY
COMMITTEE BUSINESS

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION: Declassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/22/2000

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: CCBOX 324


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Date: 08/07/95
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10133
RECORDS SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-39

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 03/25/76
PAGES : 40
SUBJECTS : SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY
COMMITTEE BUSINESS

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/05/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : CCBOX 324

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

TOP SECRET

Vol. 2 OF 3

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject
to Criminal Sanctions

The United States Senate R2873

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities


Thursday, March 25, 1976

Washington, D. C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

NW 50955 DocId:32423521 Page 3

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

TOP SECRET

COMMITTEE MEETING

Thursday, March 25, 1976

United States Senate,
Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations with Respect to
Intelligence Activities,
Washington, D. C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:43 o'clock p.m., in Room S-407, the Capitol, the Honorable Frank Church (Chairman) presiding.

Present: Senators Church (presiding), Mondale, Huddleston, Hart of Michigan, Morgan, Hart of Colorado, Tower, Mathias, Baker and Schweiker.

Also present: William G. Miller, Staff Director; Frederick A. O. Scwharz, Jr., Chief Counsel; and Charles Kirbow, Elizabeth Culbreath, Michael Madican, Charles Lombard, William Bader, Ted Rolson, Burt Wides, Walter Ricks, Rick Inderfurth, John Bayly, David Aaron, Elliot Maxwell, Joseph Dennin, Margaret Carpenter, Martha Talley, Paul Wallach and Jim Johnston, Professional Staff Members.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# TOP SECRET

2

PROCEEDINGS

The Chairman. We will soon have a quorum. Why don't we begin with the Recommendation No. 43 on page 77, having to do with academics.

My understanding is that this recommendation has been redrafted along the lines of the Committee's recommendations, and as it now stands it calls for the CIA academics and the institution to be informed, and for any student being recruited to be so informed.

There is a choice in the latter case in informing him before he is paid or informing him before he leaves the U.S. Will you explain that to me, please?

Mr. Aaron. In the course of our discussion about the recruitment of students off campuses, there were two categories of concern. One was for the integrity of the institutions themselves, and the second was, in turn, for the students that might be involved.

To take the second one first, the Committee received testimony that some foreign students recruited as agents for the CIA were brought into kind of a holding status at a certain point in which they were working for, if you will, CIA proprietaries or CIA front organizations where they might conduct some operational activity, provide some information, under the impression that they were not working for the CIA but for a company or, I think as one put it, I think, a group

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# TOP SECRET

3

1 of investors.

2 Concern was expressed by the Committee in considering

3 this testimony that this might be rather severe for the student

4 once he discovered the fact he had been working for the CIA,

5 or should his government find that out, so that it was an

6 element of coercion to hire somebody under, if you will, false

7 pretenses.

8 That second proviso, then, in effect says that we may

9 pitch and recruit a student as an agent, but you must, when you

10 do that, when you really bring him into an operational relation-

11 ship with the Agency, he should be so informed and not brought

12 into this sort of --

13 The Chairman. Let's go off the record.

14 (Discussion off the record.)

15 The Chairman. The question that I have on this recommen-

16 dation is why shouldn't the foreign student being recruited

17 by the CIA be informed of his relationship with the CIA

18 at the time that that relationship is established?

19 Why do you condition it upon payment or leaving the

20 country?

21 Senator Huddleston. Well, I was going to say there are

22 many, many initial contacts that do not advance maybe much

23 further than that, and for the CIA to have to be exposed maybe

24 on each of those might not be reasonable. What we have tried

25 to do is to make the wittingness be known about the time that

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

TOP SECRET

4

1 they are to perform some service. Up to that time they are

2 still maybe prospects, where they may not have been recruited.

3 The Chairman. Which do you think the Committee should

4 adopt of these two options?

5 Mr. Aaron. Actually, one could use both of these. I think

6 the point is that the danger to the student, if there is any,

7 comes when he leaves the United States, either to return to

8 his own country or perhaps someplace else, but the commitment

9 or involvement which ought to be witting really needs to come

10 when he starts being paid, when he becomes in fact, or has

11 a real relationship with the Agency. You could really establish

12 both standards, because it might well be that he could leave

13 the country but not have yet been paid, and not really have

14 a relationship that was anything more than kind of an asso-

15 ciation or an option, something of that character.

16 The Chairman. Well, what is the will of the Committee

17 as to these two options?

18 Senator Huddleston. Well, this represents a distillation

19 of what we have been proposing as Senator Mondale develops

20 for us, I believe, and I would move that we adopt this report,

21 and use both of these, an either/or.

22 The Chairman. Whichever comes first, huh, either before

23 he is given payment of any kind or leaves the United States,

24 whichever may occur first.

25 Would that be satisfactory to the Committee?

TOP SECRET
WARD & PAUL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

TOP SECRET

5

All right. Without objection, then, that will be the
decision of the Committee.

What else do you have?

Mr. Aaron. We have two other recommendations.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Mr. Chairman, could I be recorded
in opposition to this?

The Chairman. Yes, Senator Hart of Colorado is recorded
as in opposition.

Mr. Madigan. Senator, there is a proxy in opposition as
well.

The Chairman. Senator Baker wants to be recorded in
opposition as well.

Senator Mathias. I would, I think Senator Goldwater had
a very strong proxy that I read into the record on this subject
at the last meeting.

Mr. Kirbow. Against restricting any use of academics.

Senator Mathias. I don't have a proxy with him today, but
I feel his position ought to be noted.

The Chairman. Very well, then, with those particular
reservations made part of the record, the Committee will
approve the amended Recommendation No. 43.

We move then to Recommendation 45 on page 78.

Mr. Aaron. We attempted to redraft this along the lines
as we were instructed, I believe.

As it came out, it would prohibit the subsidy of any

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# TOP SECRET

6

writing, publication, distribution within the United States or its territories, of any book, magazine, article and so forth.

It has been pointed out that this formulation would prevent the writing of a book, even in a foreign language, within the United States, to be published abroad and distributed abroad, or any such materials from being published within the United States, even if they were distributed abroad.

Now, that may be too restrictive and go beyond what the Committee intended, and so therefore we wanted to raise this here, to get a better understanding of what we were attempting to accomplish.

As I understand it, what we were -- it was not clear, but it is possible that what the Committee had in mind was that any writing, publication for distribution in the United States would have been the appropriate formulation for this, and if that is correct, we can make a very easy fix.

Senator Morgan. Why wouldn't it?

The Chairman. Why wouldn't it accomplish it if we say that by statute the CIA should be prohibited from subsidizing the writing or production or distribution within the United States or its territories of any book, magazine, article, publication, film, or video or audio tape unless attributed to the CIA.

Wouldn't that take care of it?

Mr. Aaron. If that is what the Committee intends, that

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

OP SECRET

7

1 would take care of it.

2 Senator Mondale. Publicly attributed.

3 Mr. Aaron. Publicly

4 Senator Huddleston. That is getting at what really we

5 are trying to do.

6 The Chairman. How about the balance of 45, "nor should

7 the CIA be permitted to undertake any activity to accomplish

8 indirectly such distribution within the United States or its

9 territories.

10 Well, I think that follows and should be a part of it.

11 Very well.

12 Senator Mathias. Mr. Chairman, I wonder, while we are in

13 this area, if you could refresh my recollection, whether

14 "grantees" in No. 44 applies to both foreign and American

15 grantees.

16 Mr. Bader. Yes, it would, Senator, under this language,

17 because the Fulbright program or the such government-sponsored

18 programs to include, too, include foreigners. As I understood

19 it from the discussion of the Committee, the intent here was

20 to ensure that public funds that were publicly devoted to

21 a specific purpose were so spent and that was the issue that

22 was involved here, was the appropriated funds for educational

23 programs be kept to educational programs and not to be used

24 operationally. But the language here would certainly include

25 foreigners.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

TOP SECRET

8

Mr. Maxwell. Bill, would this prohibit the use of any individual person who is sponsored by an educational or cultural program, although not fully funded by the Federal Government?

Senator Tower. This is a question I wanted to ask. Could one of our networks pick up a portion of a film broadcast abroad by the CIA and run it as part of a documentary to show what they are doing and that kind of thing?

The Chairman. I think the way it has been modified that is not a problem. This says "by statute the CIA should be prohibited from subsidizing writings," or production.

Senator Tower. That is what I mean, you are not precluded from showing it, but it should not be done under CIA auspices or government auspices..

The Chairman. And it should not be written for the purpose of being shown in this country.

Senator Tower. Yes.

Mr. Aaron. Nor under the indirect clause, I think, nor should the CIA go to CBS and say "we've got this wonderful film."

The Chairman. Using a network for the purpose of bringing it back. That would be an indirect way, and that would be wrong also.

Senator Tower. I understand, yes.

The Chairman. Well, then, if everybody understands the

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

TOP SECRET
9
way we have recommended the change in 45, withcut objection the Committee approves it.

Let us go, then, to the next subject, the structural changes, the role of the DCI on page 61..

Mr. Aaron. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. We have one other question, that would be Recommendation 47. The Committee agreed to extend --

Mr. Kirbow. Excuse me, Mr. Aaron. Senator Mathias's question was on recommendation 44.

The Chairman. Were you satisfied with the answer?

Senator Mathias. Well, the question that was left floating was what about a student who is in a program which is primarily funded by some private institution, although there may be some small element --

Mr. Maxwell. For instance, any major university that sponsored an individual coming under 44, which receives Federal Government funds, might be barred under a broad reading of 44, and it might be helpful to make that intent clearer in 44, if that is a concern of the Committee.

Mr. Aaron. I think this goes to the grantee as opposed to the institution.

Now, if it is true --

The Chairman. It is the grantee that is receiving funds.

Mr. Aaron. If you have a grantee receiving funds from
TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

TOP SECRET

10

more than one source, then he receives them from more than one source, but if he is a grantee of a Federal program --

Mr. Maxwell. But the problem is receiving funds through educational and/or cultural programs.

For instance, if he were totally funded by the University of Maryland, which received financial support from the United States Government, arguably he is covered by that. It is not that he is receiving Federal grants. I think that is the intention.

Mr. Aaron. It should be U.S. Government educational --

Mr. Bader. Would that help?

The Chairman. Through educational and/or cultural programs sponsored by the United States Government. Wouldn't that take care of it?

Senator Huddleston. Well, grantees who are receiving directly from the United States Government or through educational or cultural programs supported by the United States Government.

The Chairman. Sponsored by.

Senator Huddleston. Well, in other words, whether he is getting them directly himself as a grantee, or whether he is receiving them from an educational program that is itself supported by the Federal Government.

Senator Mathias. I don't want to prolong this, but what about a program which is really directed right at this area which has been referred to, the armed services military

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

TOP SECRET

1 educational operate?

2 Mr. Bader. I'm sorry, sir?

3 Mr. Aaron. Well, let me see if I understand the different

4 examples. The student leader grant or the political leader

5 grant that the State Department has where they bring foreigners

6 to the United States for a period of time, presumably to

7 acquaint them with the country and what have you, under this

8 language those people while on the grant would be immune from

9 being recruited by the CIA. This doesn't mean that they

10 couldn't recruit them at some other point in their careers, but

11 that during the period of that grant they would not be in

12 effect brought here and used for that purpose. That is, I

13 think, part of the intent of this particular provision.

14 Senator Mathias. Let me give you another example. Say

15 you have an Iranian naval officer who comes over here to

16 Fort McNair.

17 Is he fair game?

18 Mr. Miller. That is not educational or cultural. It

19 would be military.

20 Senator Huddleston. I believe if he were going through

21 the War College --

22 Senator Tower. If he were going through the National

23 War College, how do you classify that?

24 Senator Mathias. He could come to the industrial base

25 or civilian --

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Kirbow. He could go to the Industrial College or the

2 War College.

3 Senator Schweiker. Can you exclude military training?

4 Senator Mathias. I don't know. I don't know what you

5 want.

6 Senator Huddleston. We are training a lot of them or

7 we entertain a lot of them.

8 Senator Schweiker. It seems to me you have to put some

9 proviso about military training in there.

10 The Chairman. Well, it depends upon what the policy should

11 be. I had thought the attempt here was to immunize any foreigner

12 who comes here on a program sponsored by the Government of the

13 United States and receives a grant for that program, to

14 immunize him during that period from being recruited by the

15 CIA.

16 Senator Schweiker. Well, if he is here for military

17 purposes, then we know it is a military relationship, I would

18 think that is suspect.

19 The Chairman. Would you want him subject to recruitment?

20 Senator Schweiker. Well, if he comes over here militarily,

21 you are so close to him, what is the difference?

22 Mr. Aaron. Well, I think the point of the prohibition

23 really is this, that these programs are created for one

24 particular purpose. They are considered by the Congress for

25 that particular purpose and the funds are voted for that


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

TOP SECRET
13

particular purpose. If the programs are then used for another purpose by the Government, that was considered and suggested that that second purpose should not be used.

Now, if you want to exempt certain categories here and say, well, the military is a different thing, you can do that. You can find a way to express that.

The Chairman. Well, it could be done. If you want to recruit foreign military officers, we can bring them over to put them through the War College.

Mr. Miller. What other training?

Senator Huddleston. Well, we have a steady stream at Fort Knox, Kentucky of military people. I don't know what kind of training. Most of them are, of course, are from friendly nations to start with.

I don't know, you know, military. Once a person puts on a uniform, he becomes fair game in a number of ways. He gives up a lot of protections that civilians have.

Senator Schweiker. You allow him to recruit -- under other policies here we allow them to recruit foreign military officers because I think that's an even more valid relationship than the students, but I make it clear that what we don't want to do, which is to abort our honest to goodness cultural exchange and other programs.

The Chairman. This could be done by saying "By statute the CIA should be prohibited from using operationally grantees

TOP SECRET
WARD & PAUL

programs is much clearer.

TOP SECRET
WARD & PAUL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

TOP SECRET

15

1 Senator Schweiker. Can we talk about Defense and military

2 training programs at the same time? It seems to me that's

3 the criteria, bringing a guy over here and educating him on

4 defense and military must be to the advantage of our military,

5 so you know what the relationship is to begin with. You are

6 not unwittingly using the guy. You are pretty witting.

7 If the guy goes to the American War College, he is pretty

8 fair game.

9 The Chairman. You can write an exception for the American

10 War College and all of the military and civilian personnel

11 receiving training under the auspices of the United States

12 armed services who are fair game.

13 (General laughter.)

14 Senator Huddleston. Except I agree with Dave, that is

15 a little awkward to zero in on this particular group. Couldn't

16 we find some way --

17 Mr. Kirbow. Mr. Chairman, I think it is not intended

18 this apply only to foreign students coming this way, you

19 include all American students going in the other direction,

20 or under any other grant.

21 Mr. Aaron. The intention of the provision initially, as

22 a matter of fact, its primary effect was for American students

23 traveling abroad.

24 Senator Tower. Well, I see no problem with that. I know

25 I don't have the votes here, but --

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 17
WARD & PAUL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# TOP SECRET

The Chairman. Which part do you have?

Senator Tower. Well, not being able to use American students abroad on some grant to gather intelligence, when most of the people the damned Soviets send over here on these cultural exchanges are really clued into the government program, indoctrinated and briefed thoroughly before they get here. I am not going to tie our hands like that. The rest of you can, but I'm not going to.

I will write a vigorous dissent on that.

Senator Morgan. May I make a comment on that?

I'm inclined to agree, and I'm also inclined to agree that we are going so far in our foreign intelligence that we are endangering the whole report, so you make that kind of an argument on the floor of the Senate on this and on two or three other things. I'm not picking at any of them. I am just sort of accepting the recommendations of the Subcommittee, but my reaction has been that maybe we are getting a little bit so far afield that we may endanger the acceptance of our whole report.

The Chairman. Senator Huddleston?

Senator Huddleston. I would just say this, that the Subcommittee has been cognizant of that situation. I think it is because of that that some of these recommendations are already softer than some of us thought would be appropriate, and this is one of the fields. There was a considerable amount of support

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

TOP SECRET

17

of the idea that academics be off limits, period, and students
in order to protect the integrity of our entire academic
community, and it is the realization that if we continued to
close the possibilities for recruitment, and the adverse
effect that that would have, maybe, on our ability to gather
intelligence, that some of us backed off of this, what would
be the optimum, we think, position to take. So this already
represents somewhat of a retreat from the principle that some
would like to see established, and in this case I think we
are again faced with the question of whether or not we want
a government-sponsored program to enjoy a high level of integrity
so that the people who are participating in it and the American
taxpayer who is supporting it can have some confidence that it
is doing what it was set out to do and what the publicly
announced purposes of it are.

And if we don't do that, if we permit it to be used as
an operational intelligence operation, then it seems to me like
we ought to announce that, that that ought to be one of the
purposes so stated in the grant to start with, while we are
likely to get an education, it is also likely if we can we
will have you gather intelligence for us.

Senator Morgan. Well, Dee, I think you are getting off
base for us. There is nothing that says they are required to
do it.

Senator Huddleston. That is correct.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

TOP SECRET

18

1 Senator Morgan. In other words, we are not going to

2 condition this grant on --

3 Senator Huddleston. Well --

4 Senator Morgan. Let me finish out, now. What you are

5 leading up to is you are saying we are going to condition this

6 grant on your cooperation with other governmental agencies.

7 Senator Huddleston. I am saying that is not beyond the

8 realm of possibility in some cases, if we don't put some

9 prohibition.

10 Senator Morgan. Well, I think there may be times,

11 especially in the light of what we heard in the past year,

12 when, you know, we might make that assumption, but I don't

13 think that on the whole when you are dealing with the United

14 States Government that you can really assume --

15 Senator Hudddleston. But you can't assume he is not,

16 either.

17 The Chairman. But what worries me is you get a student

18 who in good faith goes abroad for the purpose of study and

19 qualifies for a Government grant, and he depends upon that

20 money and then he, when he gets over there and wants to complete

21 his studies, he is approached, and he can be approached in

22 such a way that he can be made to feel that if he does not

23 throw in with the CIA and do this and that, he may find that

24 the grant will be cut off or he can't complete the study as he

25 intended. He feels a certain dependency upon the money that

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL

NW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# TOP SECRET

19

he is receiving, and he has an expectation he wants to fulfill. And thus he is in a very vulnerable position when he is approached.

Senator Morgan. Well, that is a persuasive argument, but let me ask you, have we had any evidence that that sort of thing has happened?

The Chairman. Well, I don't know.

Senator Morgan. Well, it is a very persuasive argument, but I just wonder if we should, in the absence of abuse on that part, whether or not we should go this far.

The Chairman. What about it, Mr. Bader?

Mr. Bader. Mr. Chairman, I might say in partial response to Senator Tower's remarks that the Agency's basic instruction for the operational use of individuals, 50-10, specifically prohibits the operational use of Fulbright grantees. They have already made that decision in 1967, and reconfirmed in 1973. I assume part of that came from agitation at the time in '67 and Senator Fulbright's own determination that that program not be used for operational purposes.

It was the original intent of this language to extend that prohibition, which is now a matter of public record, this actually, that part of the instruction is in the public record now under the Freedom of Information Act, that part of 50-10 that talks about Fulbright grantees. It was the original intent of the recommendation that is now before you to extend


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

TOP SECRET

that prohibition on Fulbright grantees to all of those under the Fulbright-Hayes legislation. Under the specifics of the Agency's interpretation, it makes a distinction between those students, or graduate students, or professors selected by the Board of Foreign Scholarships, and the rest -- and the rest includes cultural leader grants and the like.

Now, perhaps it might be the sensible thing in the language like this to confine it to the Fulbright-Hayes Act, which is the basic legislation which deals with this.

Senator Schweiker. How many others would you have outside of that? Would you have a lot of other programs?

Mr. Bader. Other programs?

Senator Schweiker. What percent of the total picture is the Fulbright-Hayes Act?

Mr. Bader. I really wouldn't know, Senator. I think it is the major part of it, actually. You could have a National Endowment for the Humanities fellowship in which a person would go overseas, and this, under the language we now have before you, that would include those individuals.

The Chairman. Well, I can see how vulnerable a grantee might be when approached, and if we have already written into law a prohibition that relates to the Fulbright scholars, I should think it ought to apply to any others that are receiving educational or cultural grants from the United States.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# TOP SECRET

21

1 Senator Tower. That is not a law, that is a regulation.

2 Mr. Aaron. And CIA's own regulation.

3 The Chairman. But then it was adopted as part of the law,

4 I thought you said.

5 Mr. Bader. No, sir. I said it has been made public

6 through the Freedom of Information Act. This is an internal

7 directive of the Agency, and as the Senators know, those

8 directives are certainly subject to change, so there really

9 are, in effect, two basic parts of this recommendation. One

10 was to commit the present internal prohibitions of the CIA to

11 law, and then to extend it, and the issue before the Committee,

12 in addition to whether there should be an extension, is sort

13 of how far and what language should be used to portray or

14 convey that prohibition?

15 Senator Baker. Mr. Chairman, do we have anything from

16 the Agency on this?

17 Senator Huddleston. I think you've got to weigh, to some

18 extent, the value of the two programs, of our cultural exchange

19 programs' importance. I think the public knowledge of any one

20 individual becomes known as a spy who is associated with a

21 program, it has a devastating effect, in my judgment, on the

22 program and on all students who are participating in it. I

23 just think the risk is too great.

24 Senator Tower. Well, my question at that point would be

25 to what extent does our cultural exchange program impact on

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# TOP SECRET
22
1 people behind the Iron Curtain, to convince them as people that
2 we are nice folks, that they ought to influence their government
3 to be a little bit more friendly toward us? It doesn't have
4 any impact at all in a totalitarian state, none.
5 It is really a one way street.
6 Now, I am all for cultural exchange, simply because I
7 like to watch Russian ballet dancers, especially females, but
8 the fact of the matter is cultural change does more to soften
9 up the American public toward the Iron Curtain than the
10 other way around.

11 The Chairman. That is an argument as to the merits of
12 cultural exchange, and how you view ballerinas, but the question
13 here we face is whether or not we should put American students
14 in a position where they feel they must --
15 Senator Tower. I don't think they must be coerced.
16 The Chairman. But there is an element of intimidation
17 involved if they are receiving a grant from the government.
18 Senator Tower. Well, I would favor a specific prohibition
19 against making that a condition of getting a grant or scholarship
20 of some sort.
21 Senator Baker. Or continuing one.
22 Senator Tower. Or continuing one.
23 Senator Hart of Michigan. Well, John, what do you say
24 to Dee's point? If my roommate turns out to be a spy, it is
25 automatically assumed I am, and every guy in the outfit. What

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# TOP SECRET

23

1 does this do to the American that is over there, all of

2 them? I don't think that is right.

3 Senator Tower. Well, I think in many instances American

4 operations abroad that have been completely innocent have been

5 labeled as spy operations for propaganda purposes by the other

6 side, and they will do that if they choose to. They will not

7 do it if they choose not to do it.

8 The Chairman. But you have many of these students who are

9 not inside Russia or in a Communist country. We have educational

10 and cultural programs in Third World countries and in the

11 western world.

12 Senator Tower. I understand that..

13 The Chairman. And there, if someone is caught engaging in

14 a CIA action of some kind, then everybody is contaminated.

15 The whole thing then becomes suspect in France or England or

16 wherever it might be.

17 Senator Tower. What if the grantee comes to CIA and

18 says, I have made some contacts over here that I think would

19 be of value in terms of passing intelligence along to you?

20 Are you going to turn him down and say, no, you are on a

21 Fulbright grant, we can't let you do that?

22 Senator Huddleston. No, they could use his information to

23 contact somebody else. He would not necessarily be operational

24 Mr. Bader. Operational use, under the Agency's definition,

25 has two major elements to it. First is that the purposes to

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

TOP SECRET                                                                          24

1 be accomplished, and objectives, are established by the Agency,
2 and the second is that the individual involved is tasked to
3 do that, ordered to do it, if you please.
4 Operational use does not, by the Agency's definition,
5 involve individuals who would come to the Central Intelligence
6 Agency to voluntarily give whatever information that they
7 think would be of value to the Agency, the kind of information
8 that the Contacts Division normally would like to have.

9 Senator Tower. Yes, but once having done that, the Agency
10 determines this person is valuable and they observe this
11 person and they put him under a control officer.

12 Mr. Bader. Then he would come under this condition. That
13 would be operational use!

14 Senator Huddleston. It would not include a debriefing of
15 him when he came back.

16 Mr. Kirbow. Nor could he be asked to go to a single meeting
17 more and report back on the very same subject that he just
18 reported on, which might be a critical target to the United
19 States Governments' national security.

20 Mr. Bader. Once he is operational, he has to accomplish a
21 particular task or purpose, then he is operationally used under
22 the terms.

23 Senator Tower. Even if he initiates the contact with
24 the Agency in the first place.

25 Mr. Bader. Only, Senator, if there is a second stage in

TOP SECRET
WARD & PAUL

NW 50955 DocId:32423521 Page 26


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# TOP SECRET
25

1 this, if the individual --

2 Senator Tower. I know. The second stage may be the most

3. important.

4 Mr. Bader. It certainly may, and at that stage, under the

5 Agency's definition, he would be operationally --

6 Senator Huddleston. I can't believe the Agency wouldn't

7 have another entre of some sort.

8 Senator Tower. What kind of widespread abuse are we

9 trying to prevent?

10 Has there been widespread abuse?

11 Mr. Bader. No, sir, there has not.

12 Senator Tower. There has not been.

13 Mr. Aaron. This occurs.

14 Mr. Bader. This occurs, yes.

15 Senator Hart of Michigan. What is the benefit -- there

16 has been no abuse, but what benefit?

17 Senator Mondale. It's not -- that's not the word. It's

18 not no abuse. It's not widespread.

19 Mr. Bader. The term is "not widespread."

20 Senator Tower. I said "widespread."

21 Mr. Bader. Yes, I said "widespread."

22 Senator Hart of Michigan. The question is, what

23 benefits? Do we know?

24 Senator Huddleston. That is very difficult to ascertain.

25 Senator Tower. Significant abuse? Any record of abuse?

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# TOP SECRET

26

What record of abuse do we have?

Senator Hart of Michigan. Any record of significant benefit.

Mr. Bader. A record of significant abuse in the sense that Fulbright students or those under American educational programs have been used operationally. There is an extensive record over the years, but it is not of major importance to the Agency.

The Chairman. Well, apparently the Agency itself has restricted or has put the Fulbright scholars off limits, right?

Mr. Bader. That is correct, sir.

The Chairman. Well, then, --

Senator Hart of Michigan. That must be the result of a conclusion that either they were not beneficial or they didn't want to poison the program.

Why doesn't that reasoning apply to these others?

The Chairman. Well, I think it does, but we might as well come to a vote on it and decide whether we want to keep it or strike it.

Senator Huddleston. Well, to bring it to a vote, Mr. Chairman, I would move that Paragraph 44 --

Senator Baker. Mr. Chairman, I would just kind of make one inquiry, I believe, and I already know the answer to it, that even though we are voting on this section, I believe the

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

TOP SECRET
27

1 arrangement we had previously, that is to say, that none of
2 this is final, and certainly not until we hear the comments
3 of the Agency.

4 Is that still observed?

5 The Chairman. Yes, that is still the situation. Nothing
6 becomes final until the final vote is taken, and anything can
7 be reconsidered.

8 Senator Baker. Then we are going to have comments from the
9 Agency. When, Bill, tomorrow?

10 Mr. Miller. Staff is going to get them tomorrow afternoon
11 out there, and they are going to give it to us in writing, I
12 think, tomorrow afternoon.

13 The Chairman. I suspect that the Agency will oppose
14 many of these recommendations.

15 Senator Huddleston. No question about that.

16 The Chairman. I hope that won't be the single basis
17 upon which we decide for or against.

18 Senator Huddleston. My motion includes, Mr. Chairman,
19 that we exempt the military.

20 Senator Schweiker. You say it will include --

21 Senator Huddleston. That will be in my motion, in 44, that
22 we exclude foreign military people.

23 The Chairman. All right.

24 The motion is made that Recommendation No. 44 be approved
25 with the exception that it does not apply to foreign military

TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId: 32423521 Page 29
WARD & PAUL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

TOP SECRET

1 personnel coming into this country, is that right?

2 Senator Huddleston. Yes.

3 The Chairman. Let's have a vote.

4 Do you want to call the roll, Mr. Miller?

5 Mr. Miller. Yes.

6 Mr. Hart of Michigan.

7 Senator Hart of Michigan. Aye.

8 Mr. Miller. Mr. Mondale.

9 Senator Mondale. Aye.

10 Mr. Miller. Mr. Huddleston.

11 Senator Huddleston. Aye.

12 Mr. Miller. Mr. Morgan.

13 Senator Morgan. No.

14 Mr. Miller. Mr. Hart of Colorado?

15 Senator Hart of Colorado. Aye.

16 Mr. Miller. Mr. Baker.

17 Senator Baker. No.

18 Mr. Miller. Mr. Mathias?

19 Senator Tower. You missed Goldwater. You missed Senator Goldwater.

20 Goldwater no by written proxy.

21 Mr. Miller. Mr. Mathias is in the phone booth.

22 Mr. Schweiker.

23 Senator Schweiker. Aye.

24 Mr. Miller. Mr. Tower?

25

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# TOP SECRET

29

1 Senator Tower. No.

2 Mr. Miller. Mr. Church?

3 The Chairman. Aye.

4 Senator Tower. I don't think it is going to affect the

5 outcome, so I ask consent that he be recorded.

6 Mr. Miller. The ayes have it. It is six to four. Mr.

7 Mathias is still in the phone booth.

8 Senator Tower. I ask consent that he be allowed to be

9 recorded. It might change the outcome.

10 The Chairman. All right.

11 Let's go to 61 next.

12 Mr. Aaron. The next issue is on page 78A, Recommendation..

13 47.

14 The Committee previously agreed to extend the CIA

15 prohibitions on the use of media to the use of any person

16 who regularly contributes material to publications and those

17 involved directly or indirectly in the editing or setting

18 policy and direction in the direction of the activities of

19 U.S. media organizations.

20 What was unclear was whether this was the recommendation

21 of the Committee to the CIA that it amend its regulations to do

22 that, or whether this was to be embodied in statute as had

23 been recommended in Recommendation 46..

24 The Chairman. I'm sorry, I have lost you.

25 Mr. Aaron. You will find the words "proposed statutory

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

1 CIA prohibition" and you see the words "proposed" and
"statutory" are in brackets, reflecting uncertainty on our part
as to whether it was the intention of the Committee that this
prohibition simply be a CIA regulation or embodied in the
statute, which is recommended in the recommendation of procedures.

The Chairman. Senator Huddleston, do you have any comment
on this?

Senator Huddleston. I have a personal feeling that when
we go too far statutorily in dealing with the press, that we
sometimes get on thin ice. I don't know whether it would be
appropriate to make some suggestion here that the press itself
initiate certain standards and methods. Many of them in the
press believe they ought to have anyhow.

I think the recommendation for the CIA is probably
sufficient.

The Chairman. And let that be handled as a matter of
CIA regulations.

Senator Huddleston. Rather than by statute.

The Chairman. Rather than by statute.

Is that acceptable to the Committee?

Senator Tower. I am sorry, Mr. Chairman. Would you
repeat the proposition?

The Chairman. The proposition is that the Committee
recommend that the CIA, by regulation, handle this matter
rather than make it statutory.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

TOP SECRET

31

1 Senator Tower. Well, I oppose it either by statute or by regulation, so I would suggest that those who favor the concept determine whether they want to do it by either statute or regulation. I am opposed to doing it by either.

5 Senator Schweiker. I would like to see it by statute if we are going to do it.

7 Senator Baker. Mr. Chairman, does this make any distinction between domestic media and -- on the media located physically within the United States and the U.S. media outside the United States?

11 The Chairman. No, it does not. It simply attempts to prevent the CIA from involving itself with personnel who are part of the U.S. media, whether here or abroad, as I read it.

14 Senator Tower. Okay, now, let me ask you a question.

15 What is there is a Reuters reporter in Moscow who is cooperating with us, and Reuters contributes regularly to U.S. media?

18 Senator Schweiker. We spent an hour on that. They are excluded. We argued that for an hour and I lost the point, so they would be excluded.

21 Senator Huddleston. This basically just extends to CIA's own prohibition that they had initiated against what we would normally think of as working journalists, and includes into it the executives and editors and those who may be freelancing.

TOP SECRET
WARD & PAUL
NW 50955 DocId:32423521 Page 33


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# TOP SECRET

1 Senator Tower. What if we got a freelancer for Time
2 Magazine who is indeed a foreign national? Does he come under
3 this prohibition?
4 Senator Huddleston. If he has some regular association with
5 Time he would be.
6 Mr. Aaron. Under the Agency's current regulations and
7 own prohibitions, a foreign journalist working for Time Magazine
8 oversees would be prohibited from being used by them for
9 operational purposes. That is their own position today. This
10 would extend that prohibition to someone who is, what in the
11 trade jargon is a stringer, or --
12 Senator Tower. This would include a stringer?
13 Senator Schweiker. It wouldn't cover Reuters or some
14 other foreign news service.
15 Mr. Aaron. It would also apply to a foreigner who was,
16 for example, if there were such a thing as an editor in the
17 Paris Bureau of Time Magazine. I don't think they work that
18 way, but say there were such a person, it would apply to him
19 as well.
20 Senator Tower. What about the Paris Trib? What about
21 that?
22 Mr. Aaron. A U.S. media organization.
23 Mr. Kirbow. It is excluded.
24 Senator Schweiker. That is a subsidiary of an American
25 company.

# TOP SECRET
WARD & PAUL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

TOP SECRET

33

1 Senator Tower. What about Reader's Digest Selecciones,
2 which is their Spanish publication? Is that included?
3 Mr. Aaron. I assume so.
4 The Chairman. Well, according to the CIA's own restric-
5 tions, it is excluded now, except this would simply
6 extend the exclusion to stringers, those who do not have
7 regular employment.

8 Senator Huddleston. And editors and executives.
9 The Chairman. And editors and executives.

10 Mr. Bader. The present restriction, Senator Tower,
11 that has been extended by the Agency in February, went to
12 accredited journalists, accredited to U.S. media organizations.
13 The only difference between this prohibition and the one
14 already assumed by the Agency is that this moves further
15 accreditation to include those who regularly contribute to
16 U.S. media organizations or are a part of their structure.

17 Mr. Kirbow. The management structure.
18 Mr. Bader. The management structure, whether they
19 contribute material to or are involved directly or indirectly
20 in the preparation of material.

21 The Chairman. Well, I think if we are going to do it,
22 we had better decide on the policy. If we want to keep the
23 CIA out of U.S. media both at home and abroad, and we want
24 to extend that to stringers as well, then I think it ought
25 to be done by statute rather than just a recommendation by

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# TOP SECRET

34

the Committee that the CIA do it, because the CIA regulations may or may not issue, and they can be changed at any time without notice.

Senator Tower. Well, Mr. Chairman, aren't we talking about two different things?

I don't mean foreign, you know, our foreign correspondents abroad writing CIA propaganda for American publications. We are talking about operations here, operational use, not use to write some article that the CIA wants planted in an American publication. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about using him to gather intelligence, and it goes back directly to the CIA which doesn't serve as a publication.

The Chairman. But operational use can include many things, including writing propaganda and usually would if it involved journalists.

Senator Tower. Well, I think we have already got a prohibition on that.

Mr. Bader. The prohibition that the Central Intelligence Agency has self-imposed extends across the line from cover to placement to all operational use of individuals, accredited individuals to American media organizations. As I say, the difference between what the Agency has already taken upon itself and what this recommendation involves is this recommendation extends it to individuals who are not accredited.

There are a number -- the figures that the Committee has

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# TOP SECRET
35

1 which have been authenticated by the Agency, that there are

2 some 60 Americans who are affiliated or are part of American

3 media organizations around the world, part of a larger network

4 of some 400 journalists and the like who are part of the Agency's overall media asset program, and of those 60 under the Agency's

5 present prohibitions, the ones recently imposed, it would go

6 to just one third of those individuals.

7 This prohibition would extend it from the one third to

8 all because the other two thirds include people that are

9 under cover, who are in management, and who are not under

10 the technical term accredited to U.S. media organizations.

11 Mr. Chairman, I might say if the Committee would look

12 at the Recommendation 46 that goes before 47, perhaps it might

13 bear in mind that the recommendation in 46, which takes the

14 present Agency prohibitions and says that they should be established in law, if in 47, if the Committee should so

15 decide to do it by recommendation, that they change their

16 internal prohibitions, there will be a contrast between 46

17 and 47.

18 The Chairman. Well, let's have a vote. Let's go back

19 to 46, and I take it that the recommendation is that this

20 prohibition that the CIA has imposed upon itself ought to

21 be written in statutory form.

22 Mr. Bader. That is the recommendation.

23 The Chairman. All right. Let's have a vote on that

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# TOP SECRET

1 first of all, and then we'll take up 47.

2 Mr. Miller, will you call the roll?

3 Senator Huddleston. Mr. Chairman, I think I am probably

4 the only one that has suggested that it should not be statutory

5 and I would just point out that that might be a result of the

6 fact that I am in the media, so I would withdraw that unless

7 somebody else wants to make that recommendation.

8 The Chairman. I thought yours went to 47.

9 This is 46.

10 Senator Huddleston. It did, but they both relate to the

11 media.

12 The Chairman. Well, let's take a vote on 46, which

13 would recommend that Congress enact a statute conforming to

14 the CIA's self-imposed prohibition on U.S. journalists or

15 foreign journalists accredited to the U.S. media abroad.

16 Mr. Miller. Mr. Hart of Michigan.

17 Senator Hart of Michigan. Did you want a roll call?

18 The Chairman. Yes!

19 Senator Hart of Michigan. Aye.

20 Mr. Miller. Mr. Mondale.

21 Senator Mondale. Aye.

22 Mr. Miller. Mr. Huddleston?

23 Senator Huddleston. Aye.

24 Mr. Miller. Mr. Morgan.

25 Senator Morgan. Aye.

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# TOP SECRET

37

1 Mr. Miller. Mr. Hart of Colorado.

2 Senator Hart of Colorado. Aye.

3 Mr. Miller. Mr. Baker.

4 Senator Baker. Aye.

5 Mr. Miller. Mr. Goldwater.

6 Senator Tower. No by proxy.

7 Mr. Miller. Mr. Mathias.

8 (No response.)

9 Mr. Miller. Mr. Schweiker.

10 Senator Schweiker. Aye.

11 Mr. Miller. Mr. Tower.

12 Senator Tower. No.

13 Mr. Miller. Mr. Church..

14 The Chairman. Aye.

15 Senator Tower. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent that Senator Mathias be recorded. It will not be changed.

17 The Chairman. All right.

18 Now can we go to 47 and vote it up or down on the understanding that this recommendation having to do with stringers and the use of executives would not take statutory form but it would be a recommendation to the CIA without such regulation.

23 Ms. Culbreath. Mr. Chairman, could I say just a word, please sir, with regard to whether it was done by directive or regulation or by statute. Yesterday one of the general recommendation:

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

TOP SECRET
38
that we discussed and the staff was asked to rewrite went to the question of any changes or waivers of Agency directives or recommendations, and as considered by the Committee yesterday. The agreement was -- and if that proposal is one of the general recommendations goes through any waiver of an existing regulation or any amendment of an existing regulation, that affected the significant policies or programs of the Agency, would have to go immediately to NSC and to the oversight committee so that they would know.

So what I am saying is that if you had a directive and there was a change in something like this which would be significant, there would have to be notice to the oversight committee and to the NSC.

The Chairman. Can we have a vote, then, on 47 before we go down to the Senate to this roll call.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Hart of Michigan.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Mondale.

Senator Mondale. Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Huddleston.

Senator Huddleston. Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Morgan.

Senator Morgan. Aye.

Mr. Miller. Mr. Hart of Colorado.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Aye.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

TOP SECRET
39
1 Mr. Miller. Mr. Baker.
2 Senator Baker. Aye
3 Mr. Miller. Mr. Goldwater.
4 Senator Tower. No by proxy.
5 Mr. Miller. Mr. Mathias.
6 (No response.)
7 Mr. Miller. Mr. Schweiker.
8 Senator Schweiker. Aye.
9 Mr. Miller. Mr. Tower.
10 Senator Tower. No.
11 Mr.Miller. Mr. Church.
12 The Chairman. Aye.
13 Senator Tower. Mr. Chairman, I ask unanimous consent
14 that Senator Mathias be allowed to vote.
15 The Chairman. That will be so ordered.
16 All right, let's take a short recess and come back.
17 (Whereupon, at 4:05. o'clock p.m. the Committee
18 recessed to reconvene at 10:00 o'clock a.m., Friday, March
19 26, 1976.)

TOP SECRET
WARD & PAUL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

NW 50955 DocId:32423521 Page 42


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)