# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10005-10225
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R891

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
TESTIMONY/REPORT OF PROCEEDINGS WITH EXHIBITS
DATE: 08/12/75
PAGES: 90
SUBJECTS :
TESTIMONY OF HOUSTON, LAWRENCE RE: CIA AND CASTRO
EXHIBITS ARE INCLUDED
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/01/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS:
BOX 248-02


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TOP SECRET

18

Niarchos' ship captains named Katopodes brought a libel action

I believe it was, against Onassis for some letter he had written about some activities of Katapodes, I can't remember the details now.

We didn't know where this was leading. So this was in the Supreme Court of New York State, and so I went to a fellow I knew in the U.S. Attorney's office and asked him if he could keep track of how this suite was developing to see if it was leading into some of the connections we had, particularly with Niarchos.

And he got some of the pleadings and some of the pre-trial evidence --

Mr. Wides. But you don't recall any contacts between the Agency and the Justice Department resulting in Mr. Yeagley going up to try and halt some aspects of the grand jury proceedings in New York growing out --

Mr. Houston. It strikes no valve.

Mr. Wides. Let me ask just one more question in this area and then we will move on to the document I asked you to look at before we started.

Mr. Maxwell. I have just one other question.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall the infamous Kilham case involving the alleged wrongful death of a former CAT airline agency employee in Thailand in which it was alleged that two other agency employees -- Mr. Kilham, I believe, had been a CAT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# TOP SECRET

1 employee. And at the time Mr. Joost and the other fellows

2 were CIA employees of the station at Thailand in 1951 they were

3 alleged to have been involved in disposing of Mr. Kilham's

4 body, and there was a serious question as to whether one or

5 both of them had been involved in his death And then I believe

6 in 1955 this was brought to the attention of the Agency through

7 the efforts, among others, of Mr. O'Donnell, who was then the

8 station chief, Justin O'Donnell, who came back and raised it

9 with Mr. Wiesner, and then I believe it was raised with

10 Mr. Kirkpatrick and with yourself.

11 Do you recall that incident and the eventual denouement

12 of the affair?

13 Mr. Houston I cannot remember the exact chronology.

14 I had thought they had gotten the report on the problem a

15 little earlier than you suggested. But I can't argue it.

16 Mr. Wides. Do youknow if any action was taken earlier

17 than the time in 1955 when Mr. O'Donnell first raised it with

18 Mr. Wiesner?

19 Mr. Houston. I didn't know that Justin O Donnell was

20 the one -- at least I don't recall it, so I don't know exactly

21 how it first came to my attention. But when it did, to the

22 best of my recollection, Lyman Kirkpatrick and I, and I think

23 Frank Wiesner was probably involved, tried to assemble all

24 the facts to find out insofar as possible what had gone on

25 It was a confused picture. All sorts of interpersonal feelings

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

TOP SECRET

1 that I recall were going on out there. And Ithink one of the
2 Thai police might have been involved.

3 Mr. Wides. I don't know if it refreshes your recol-
4 lection, but I believe a Colonel Rack was a local official
5 who had some knowledge of it.

6 Mr. Houston. To the best of my recollection I put
7 this together and talked to Allen Dulles who was much concerned
8 about it. He said, I think we ought to report that to
9 Justice.

10 And I said, there is no particular problem, because
11 there is nothing we can do about it because there is no crime
12 against the U.S. that I can find in this situation, it is a
13 crime against the Thai sovereignty.

14 And Allen said, that well may be. But I still think
15 that I want to report this to Justice.
16 And he asked me to prepare a detailed report on a
17 classified basis. I have forgotten the nature of the classi-
18 fication. I suppose the relations with CAT at that time were
19 still basically top secret.

20. So, I did prepare a report and delivered it to -- I
    21 can't remember-- probably to the Assistant Attorney General,
    22 Criminal Division, who ever it was.

23 They said to the effect, thank you, that is it. There
24 is nothing we can do.

25 Mr. Wides. Was there any discussion of the possibility

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# TOP SECRET

Mr. Houston. My recollection is that the indications were that the Thai authorities had as much information as we did. I don't remember to the contrary, but a lot of the information we got came from the Thais.

Mr. Wides. Did Mr. Kirkpatrick go over to Thailand to talk to some of the people there to find out what they knew about the situation?

Mr. Houston. I don't recall

Mr. Maxwell. Was any action taken against either of the CAT employees?

Mr. Wides. Dennis Fleming was the other one. And he was recalled.

Mr. Houston. And Kilham?

Mr. Wides. Joost and Fleming were the two persons against whom the charges or allegations were raised. Kilham was the victim.

Mr. Houston. I remember Joost being a problem, but I can't remember what the outcome was. And Dennis Fleming just strikes a very faint bell. I can't remember at this time

Mr. Wides. Did you have another question in this area?

Mr. Maxwell. I just wanted to say, if you wanted to continue, you said there were three cases that eliminated the

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# TOP SECRET

kind of cases which CIA had with Justice, and the referrals, and you had gone through one. And I wondered if you wanted to go through the other two.

Mr. Houston. All right.

The second one was quite an interesting one. If I give it in too much detail, excuse me.

Mr. Maxwell. Off the record.

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Maxwell. Back on therecord.

Mr. Houston. The staff officer in Italy all of a sudden disappeared from his post, and there was indication that he had with him a considerable sum of money, something in the nature of $30,000, I can't remember the exact amount. This was promptly reported, and he disappeared into the blue.

The station started looking into it. And I believe we sent people over to try and look into it, and found that there had been a serious family problem between himself and his wife.

Finally, through some sort of source in Mexico we got word that this fellow was near Mexico City, and he passed word to the station through a lawyer that he had written all the operational details of what he had been engaged in in Italy, which again were very sensitive, sealed them, and put them in a vault which only thelawyers could get at, with instructions to his lawyers that if anything happened to him, no

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# TOP SECRET

The SEC, as a result has raised some questions with Justice between our justice and our statutory problems. This is before Justice now.

Mr. Wides. Is there a file in the OGC office generally regarding, not necessarily every one, but many of your -- which would contain many or most of OGC contacts with Administrative agencies over the years?

Mr.Houston. No, because they weren't -- there probably is a substantial file on relations with Internal Revenue. But those were to a large part either working out our own tax equations on our own personnel with cover problems which you probably know about, or the CAT situation, or Southern Air Transport, and not interferring with IRS prosecutions, although several times we were involved -- here is the type of case I guess you are talking about.

What is the fellow out in the Philippines -- I think his name is Stonehill- who had one of the biggest tax assessments made against an individual made against him, I think, $2 million? And Stonehill very definitely tried to involve us in his defense. There was some connection with Stonehill in the Philippines, you couldn't be in the Philippines without some connection with them. And yet gave IRS the full information, and said, don't bother with us, we are not concerned.

Mr. Wides. What about such things as the contacts with

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1 Mr. Houston. It was a memo of DITEL's that I saw. 55

2 I think it was dated after I left. I saw it in draft after-

3 ward. It had to do, I recall, with operations in the Trust

4 Territories.

WARD & PAUL

5 Mr. Wides. In other words, the first category of issue

6 that I mentioned?

7 Mr. Houston. Yes.

8 Mr. Wides. With regard to MH MUTUAL, which is a topic

9 that we obviously don't have time to discuss fully today and

10 we have not yet seen the files, I wonder -- and Mr. Maxwell

11 was going to pursue this, and I may be back -- if you could

12 give me a rough idea during the period when it was under your

13 stewardship of the organizational chart, as it were, for the

14 policy committee, the investment committee, and so forth, how

15 were the questions of what investments could be made with the

16 pension fund and the insurance fund and the like, how was that

17 policy developed, and whowas involved and so forth?

18 Mr. Houston. The lawyer running the actual operation

19 reported directly to me.

20 Mr. Wides. WAs he in the OGC office? 05 part of

21 ANVIL?

22 Mr.Houston. He was ANVIL, a staff official but under

23 unofficial cover.

24 Mr. Wides. Meaning that he was in a law firm that

25 was essentially a proprietary.

410 Fir
S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955 DocId 32202415 Page 8 TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# TOP SECRET

Mr. Houston. Not entirely a proprietary. We supported
part of it, and part of it was a legitimate law firm, they
worked together and shared the firm.

Mr. Wides. Is it possible for you to indicate
who that is, or is that someone whom you would not like to
disclose.

Mr. Houston. I can't do that.

Mr. Wides. How would we refer to him in terms of his
position if we were trying to ascertain his identity, or
if we were negotiating with the Agency, as it were? What
was his title vis-a-vis the mutual management? Was he the
project officer?

Mr. Houston. He was certainly -- let's call him the
project officer for MM ANVIL!

Mr. Wides. And that was for a good many years, one
particular person?

Mr. Houston. Yes. He was there from pretty near the
start until he retired by, about two years ago, three years
ago. So, he was there all through the sixties, I would say,
or the seventies.

Mr. Wides. This is not John Keaney, is it?

Mr. Houston. No.

Mr. Wides. Was John Keaney's role more in terms of
setting up proprietaries and incorporating them?

Mr. Houston. John Keaney?

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# TOP SECRET

Mr. Wides. Yes, a Washington attorney -- or Kenney.

Mr. Houston. Kenney. He must have been one of the central cover projects. He was not an OGC project that I recalled.

Mr. Wides. He was not prominently involved in establishing proprietanies or their incorporation?

Mr. Houston. He might have worked in some of the central cover situations but I don't recall him being involved in any of the proprietaries I worked on.

Mr. Wides. With regard to MH MUTUAL, as you can readily understand, we are interested in exploring its dimensions in nature, and are really beginning to get access to materials on it. Without taking you through all of its multi-faceted aspects, which would take sometime, let me ask you one or two questions with regard to concerns that have been raised by the committee.

Do you recall at any time questions arising about the conflict of interest or any questionable aspects of the investment decisions of the MH MUTUAL program or any part of it?

And by that I do not mean an individual who obtained intelligence information and was trading on his own, or an investment club within the agency, or that kind of thing, but questions involving either the Agency using insider information if you will, obtained through its intelligence activities or otherwise in making investment decisions or buying stock or debentures, or making other investments to assist the person

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

TOP SECRET

1 or the corporation or country whose securities were being invested in?

2 Mr. Houston. There were about two or maybe three recom-

3 mendations from the Investment Counsel we had at the time we

4 were turned down --

5 Mr. Wides. Excuse me. Was the Investment Counsel the

6 person you were referring to?

7 Mr. Houston. No, this was an outside investment

8 counsel we retained for advice for a period of time.

9 Mr. Wides. Was it a firm or an individual?

10 Mr. Houston. It is a well-known firm. And they made at

11 least two or three recommendations to invest in stock of

12 companies which we questioned rather extensive contractual

13 arrangements, and in view of those contractual arrangements,

14 I recommended that we reject the recommendations.

15 And we did.

16 Mr. Wides. Do you recall any instances where invest-

17 ments were made and it was then learned or there was

18 adversion to the fact that there were contractual relation-

19 ships, or whether they were known in advance and it was weighed

20 and the decision was made to go ahead with the investment?

21 Mr. Houston. No. The only ones I recall were turned

22 down. Since there was ample room to investigate, there was

23 no need to get in a position of possible implication of

24 conflict of interest. So, we erred on the side of turning down


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# TOP SECRET

rather than going ahead.

And incidentally, the outside investment counsel would not know why we turned it down.

Mr. Wides Were all of the investment decisions for the assets of MH MUTUAL -- and you use that in the broad sense, I don't fully understand the relationships among all the aspects of the complex -- but were all of the investment decisions, the Eurodollars and the small amount of stock and the like made by outside counsel or were there some investment initiatives which originated within the Agency?

Mr. Houston. For a while almost all of them were made by this outside counsel. It was not too happy a relationship, not because of his fault. I think he was doing his honest best. But we took too long processing his recommendations and often lost a market by taking too long through our own internal controls.

So, finally, we decided that while we had gone to him for a good reason, that is, so we could show that we had relied on outside counsel of known stature, that it was not fair either to him or to us to be in circumstances where we were really secondguessing him through our own intermal proçedures and our own invetment sort of Board of Directors.

So we left, I hope, on friendly terms.

Mr. Wides. About when was that?

Mr. Houston. Let me guess at around 1969, something


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

60

1 like that.

2 Mr Wides. Up until then as far as you know there

3 was no investment of Agency funds that were made as a result

4 of any decisions or implications within the CIA which might

5 then have been run by him for his independent advice but might

6 have originated or prompted within the Agency?

7 Mr. Houston. There may have been those You see,

8 on our Board of Directors to which we referred all basic in-

9 vestment decisions we had three of our top economists, and

10 at least one of them was a member of a couple of college
investment boards, so that they had the benefit of the advice

12 to those university investment counsel.

WARD & PAUL

13 Mr. Wides. Was he a consulting economist or a member--

14 Mr. Houston. A member of the staff.

15 Mr. Maxwell. Mrs. Thunberg?

16 Mr. Houston. Yes.

17 Mr. Wides. And her relationship with the university

18 board was what, as an alumni?

19 Mr. Houston. As an alumni. She was called as a

410 First, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

20 consultant on their investment program.

21 We also had the advice of a couple of friendly banks,

22 and at least a couple of insurance companies would freely

23 give us the benefit of their investment policies.

24 Mr. Wides. What was the relationship between yourself

25 and the banks and the insurance companies, the CIA?

NW 50955 DocId: 12202415 Page 13

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# TOP SECRET

(Discussion off the record.)

1 Mr. Houston. To go back to the start -- it may have

2 already been told -- back in the last fifties we found in

3 the OGC office that the hardest thing to cope with were bene-

4 fits for death or disability insured under covert circumstan-

5 ces, particularly when, as so often happened, no prior planning

6 had been made for this. Even the prior planting is diffi-

7 cult, because if you are going to put an agent into certain

8 circumstances, and say you will get him insurance through

9 Mutual of Omaha, if the circumstances of the Department are

10 later known to Mutual of Omaha, they might say, well, that

11 is not a risky cover, and continually you wouldn't have

12 your insurance.

13 So, we came to the conclusion that we needed our own in-

14 surance business, and we started by buying two very small

15 off-shore insurance companies, and started writing death and

16 health policies. Now, the business grew quite rapidly to

17 cover all sorts of covert operations. And we went to two

18 large outside insurance companies and asked if they would

19 cooperate and take some of the policies either on a fully pro-

20 tected basis from us, or if they saw fit, for their own account.

21 And both of them did both. They would take some risks for

22 their own account, and the only thing we would ask is that

23 they protect the investigation in case it got into sensitive

24 fields.

NW 50955 DocId: 32202415 Page 14 TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

TOP SECRET

others they would ostensibly take the risk and we would stand behind them.

Mr. Wikes. So that was indemnification?

Mr. Houston. Complete indemnification. And by and large this arrangement worked extremely well.

Mr. Wikes. So those were the kinds of insurance companies were talking about that would give us the benefit of their investment?

Mr. Houston. Both of them had large investment portfolios of their own, and feel I gave us access to their investment manager, who were most cooperative in what they were investing.

Mr. Wikes. And what was the point of contact in the Agency during that period for the insurance companies?

Mr. Houston. I went in both cases to set up the original contact, and then this project officer was the primary.

Mr. Wikes. And he would have been the point of contact for receiving their investment views?

Mr. Houston. He or his office.

Mr. Wides. And you mentioned also a bank as an outside source.

Mr. Houston. There were a couple of banks, but one particularly. We kept some of the money on deposit with this bank. And we had some offshore assets that were ostensibly


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# TOP SECRET

held by an offshore subsidiary of the bank. The bank at our
request gave us a flat guarantee of repayment no matter what
on these assets. So, we felt well protected on this. And also,
when we deposited with them the certificates of deposit we
got the normal prime rate on our deposits. And here again
they particularly in the field of Eurobonds had some good
advice, and we also went to another brokerage house in
New York who had investment advisory staff that specialized in
Eurobonds. So far as I know, they did not know the Agency
was involved, but they gave advice on the best interest rates
in Eurobonds and certificates. It was a highly specialized
field.

Mr. Maxwell. Who was going to the investment house, the
project officer?

Mr. Houston. The project officer

Mr. Wides. Do you recall any dealings with Suydam and Com-
pany?

Mr. Houston. Now I have been asked time and time again
about Suydam Company, and the only thing I knew was from
personal knowledge going back to a trust my sister has an
interest in in the Guaranty Trust. They had one of these hold-
ing companies which I think was called Suydam and Company. But
you never heard -- who was it? I know. One of our directors
of Southern Air Transport told me that he was continually
being asked by contact with Suydam and Company. And he said

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# TOP SECRET

64

that is the only one he knows, was the Guaranty Trust. There was someone else, I don't know about it.

Mr. Wides. GEtting back to the question I alluded to while we were off the record, did any questions arise about whether the people on the board, the investment board, or managing board of Mutual who were from within the Agency, would have access to economic intelligence or political intelligence relevant to their own thinking on investments, and where there was any question of a proprietary involved?

Mr. Houston. The members of the board were always free to bring up their ideas for investments, particularly in the stock field, until more recent years. But mainly we were consulting the economic experts for their general economic knowledge on trends and any input they could give on basic investment policies.

Mr. Wides. That would include, I assume, economic intelligence regarding, for example, the trend of whether there was likely to be a copper shortage, or the trend of whether there was likely to be more nationalization of rubber plantations or oil?

How would you differentiate that from economic intelligence except that it would be --

Mr. Houston. Because our investments, except for the Eurobonds, were almost entirely in U.S.investments. And while these were trained economists, their main professional

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

TOP SECRET

65

1 interest was in the foreign field. And I don't remember them

2 staying for instance, let's get into copper, it is going to

3 be in very short supply in Peru or whatever. I don't remember

4 any discussion of that sort.

5 Mr. Wides Do you recall any policy papers or reviews

6 generally as to the use of Agency knowledge in the broadest

7 sense of its intelligence fund in regard to the investment

8 decisions as distinct from decisions that were generated wholly

9 by outside?

10 Mr. Houston. There were various basic general policy

11 papers usually I would prepare them and put them before

12 the board in which this may have been touched on. I don't

13 recall it specifically.

14 Mr. Maxwell. The source of funds invested under the

15 auspices of the board were what?

16 Mr.Houston. The initial source of funds was usually

17 reprogrammed at the year's end available for operational use.

18 And this was regarded as an operational use necessary to

19 support operations because of the need for the basic insurance

20 function.

21 In other words, all these companies that we had in

22 this insurance complex appeared to have the substance and

23 insraance.company would be expected to have. Actually, the

24 whole fund for all of them was managed as a central fund under

25 this tone project officer. On the design and organizational

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# TOP SECRET

chart it looked very complicated. In operation it was quite simple. It was handled really as one entity with various faces appearing. And the complications of those whereby maintaining your directors who took no part in the operation, your companies directors, and things, and keeping your letterhead straight for your writing for the different companies.

Mr. Maxwell. Were there other sources of funds, profits made by proprietaries in stock or bond transactions that went back into the investment fund?

Mr. Houston. They would all go into the central investment fund, and in the initial stages, particularly where there was income from funds and dividends -- until the stock market broke there were some capital gains registered. Then the investment policy went more and more, particularly as the interest rate went up, in the Eurobonds and certificates of deposit, where for a while you were getting -- I think we got a weighted average of over 11 percent. And then those would go back into the fund against the insurance loss account-ability. The most difficult thing we had was trying to decide what was enough, because there was no actuarial experience such as in a nominal insurance company.

Mr. Wides. You mean the capitalization of particular companies against insurance?

Mr. Houston. Exactly.

Mr. Wides. What about proprietary profit, was that


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# TOP SECRET

67
1 one source of funds that went into the total capital fund?
2 Mr. Houston. No. If you reorgnized a proprietary or
3 disposed of it, the proceeds identified as the proceeds of
4 that might go into this fund until their eventual disposi-
5 tion back into the Treasury, or whatever was decided.
6 Mr. Wides. What about prior to dissolution, just the
7 annual operating profit, were any not left in the proprietary
8 but taken out in partvand put into the fund?
9 Mr. Houston. In the first place this wasn't a frequent
10 occurence in propriataries In fact MH MUTUAL and Air America
11 were the only substantially profitable operations. There were
12 minor profits in others, but by and large as far as I know
13 they were left in the companies until they were dissolved.
14 And toward the end of Air America I believe we let off some
15 of the profits before the final dissolution and then took the
rest of them over, and Athey eventually turned them into the
16
17 Treasury.
18 Mr. Wides. With regard to the investment, in the case
19 of certificates of deposit abroad I take it that is what you
20 are referring to as the weighted average, when you weighted
21 Eurodollars, Eurobonds and certificates of deposit.Whatever
22 the form, were some of the investments in foreign countries made
23 in any way in consultation with the operating divisions in
24 regard to the non-investment aspects of the loan, if you will,
25 the possible use of them for covert assistance in the broadest


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# TOP SECRET

sense of that term?

Mr. Houston. No.

Let us get one thing straight. The certificate of deposit were domestic.

Mr. Wides. Were there any foreign loans?

Mr. Houston. There were no foreign loans that I recall.

The Eurodollar bonds were in the case those which were guaranteed by a U.S. company.

Mr. Wides. You don't recall any investment in obligations of a foreign country?

Mr. Houston. Not of a foreign country as such. I believe there were a couple in foreign companies.

I can't even be sure of that, but my recollection is by and large of subsidiaries of U.S. companies which do not guarantee their subsidiary bonds.

Mr. Wides. Thank you.

Mr. Maxwell. I wouldlike to go through some of the material in the Olsen case. And I have marked as Houston Exhibit 5 the excerpts from the IG's diary which I showed you before.

(The document referred to was marked Houston Exhibit No. 5 for identification.)

# TOP SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)