2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10008-10246

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R560A

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED
6/12/98

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

DATE: 07/25/75
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS:
INTERVIEW WITH DAVID, PAUL (ALIAS)
SUBJ: ASSASSINATION INQUIRY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
BOX 438-12

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUR RY

INTERVIEW WITH: Paul David (alias)

SSCI 438-12
10246

REGARDING: Assassination Inquiry

DATE-TIME-LOCATION: July 25, 1975; 608 Carroll Arms

PRESENT: Messrs. WALLACH and DiGenova

HAS OR SHOULD BE DIGESTED:

FOLLOW UP REQUIRED:

MATERIAL SUBMITTED BY INTERVIEWEE(S);

EXECUTIVE SESSION: ☑ YES ☐ No

NW 50955 DocId: 32203754 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

TOP SECRET

This morning, Joe and I met with Paul David ("P.D.") at the Carroll Arms for approximately two hours. George Clarke from the CIA's General Counsel's staff was present for the last fifteen minutes of the interview.

Page 1 of 2

FILE:

Background:

1948-51 - Assistant to the Chief of Station - *Rumania*

1951-54 - Chief Rumanian Desk

1954-58 - Chief of Operations Against Communist Areas (Eastern Bloc) - (Operations from *(Greek Base)* stationed in Greece)

1958-61 - Channel Chief Station

1961-62 - Special Assistant to Helms

1962-63 - National War College (June 1962 - July 1963)

1963-64 - Helms' Special Assistant

1965-66 - Chief Station (Holland/Hague)

1966-69 - Chief of Station (Ethiopia)

1969-73 - Chief of Operational Services - Chief of Staff in DDP. (Director Clandestine Services)

1973 - Chief Career Management Personnel

1973-74 - Chief Plans & Programs for Directorate

Interview Summary:

Bissell "out of the blue" asked P.D. to read and comment upon Zoogby's Cuban operations paper. P.D. told Bissell that the paper/proposals "stunk" ( . . "much like another Bay of Pigs"). Apparently, Helms also read and liked P.D.'s comments. After Bissell "left", Helms requested that P.D. come on board as his staff assistant.

P.D. stressed that he was not in the operational line of command -- "I provided an interface for intelligence information." A typical day in P.D.'s life:

-- Screening cable traffic (7 - 9 a.m.). Primarily cables relating to positive intelligence, to prepare Helms for his daily 9 a.m. hour-long meeting with DCI McCone.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

![signature]

(1)(A)
(1)(B)
(1)(C)

![unidentifiable logo] 55 DocId: 32203754 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY                                        Page 2 of 2

# TOP SECRET

FILE:

-- Prepared a daily briefing for the White House on Cuban intelligence.

-- Preparing review of books such as "The Invisible Government" and damage reports (i.e., reports setting forth what sensitive information exposed by book).

P.D. stressed that he was "out of touch with the day-to-day operations of Task Force W". However, he believes that Harvey kept Helms fully briefed.

Harvey, in P.D.'s own words, was "not an ordinary man", . . . "egocentric", "bombastic", "one of the strongest proponents of compartmentalization and need to know". In addition, Harvey had a law degree and a successful FBI stint prior to joining the Agency.

Harvey had a thyroid problem. As one of the "CIA's most interesting characters", Harvey was often talked about; P.D. has difficulty separating personal experience from rumors. Describing Harvey as a "four martini man at lunch" . . . which, coupled with Harvey's thyroid medicine, caused Harvey to be sleepy, etc., after lunch. In fact, P.D. told us that this was the "last straw" in McCone's eyes; i.e., apparently when McCone called Harvey in to "discuss" the Kennedys' complaints about Harvey's utterings, it was immediately after lunch and Harvey either fell asleep or failed to pay attention. ("McCone did not have an audience.") P.D. added that there was general "bad chemistry" between McCone and Harvey.

P.D. noted Harvey's intense loyalty to "his people" (including Helms and Starkey[^3]). However, P.D. is sure that even with these people, Harvey was likely to have been extremely close-mouthed.

[^3]:


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)