# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date:09/02/94
Page:1

## JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10280

RECORDS SERIES :
CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO : DIRECTOR, CIA

TITLE :
ROBERT MAHEU'S TRANSPORTATION OF PROSTITUTES

DATE : 10/10/57
PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :
MAHEU, ROBERT
ROBERT A. MAHEU AND ASSOCIATES (RAMA)
PROSTITUTES
FOREIGN LEADERS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

Clean Copy of IN 20362

DIRECTOR
CIUDAD TRUJILLO

10 October 1957
IN 20362
CITE TRUJ 272

RE: HDCW 119

1. CIA source called COS urgently 9 Oct and turned over two
   documents charging that Robert M. Maheu violated Mann Act in
   procuring and transporting prostitutes for a foreign leader during
   state visit U. S. 1956, that this done with tacit approval State.
   Also charge Maheu with wire tapping OPS against Onassis Shipping
   Co in 55, that this done with tacit approval U. S. Government and
   known to CIA, State and FBI.

2. COS expressed low interest info but agreed pouch to
   CIA.

3. On 8 Oct EMCREEP gave identical documents to DCM who
   pouched same 9 Oct to State for action AMB Farland. Told DCM a
   high foreign official desires wide distribution U. S. Government
   agencies.

4. CIA source believes only possible source above documents
   is John Joseph Frank who formerly close to Maheu.

5. FC: DOM objective possibly blackmail U. S. Government,
   kill Frank Trial.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO KAPOK CABLES.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM
(1)(A) AS SANITIZED
(1)(B)

01450

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED
27-7-94
2/23/98

PROPERTY OF
THE WHITE HOUSE (OFFICE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)