157-10011-10121 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date:10/07/93
Page:1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10011-10121
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM: DEMPSEY, JOHN P., CHIEF, RESEARCH
TO: DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

TITLE :
WILEY, CHARLES WILLIAM

DATE: 04/01/74
PAGES: 116

SUBJECTS :
SUMMARY REPORT BY VASALY, LOUIS W. RE WILEY, CHARLES W. [R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : S
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
SSCI Box 221, Folder 10

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

Record Number 157-10011-10121

1 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Security

SUBJECT : Charles William Wiley

Attached herewith for your information is a summary report covering Subject prepared by CIA Cover Employee Louis W. Vasaly and the undersigned. It is limited to and based upon existing documents in the Office of Security files on Charles William Wiley; overt file #343 589, covert file #127 958 and thirteen volumes of Security Research Staff operational files. The report's accuracy and authenticity are necessarily based upon file documents, since the writers did little or no interpretation of those documents and quoted documents in toto wherever possible.

![signature of John P. Dempsey]
John P. Dempsey
Chief, Research Branch

RECEIVED FROM
SEP 30 1975
CIA

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 2

SECRET

062258


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

CONTENTS

BACKGROUND 1
EVENTS LEADING TO RECRUITMENT 2
SECURITY PROCESSING 8
ACTIVITIES, MARCH 1956 - JUNE 1959 9
CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP 13
ACTIVITIES, JULY 1959 JANUARY 1974 15
WORLD YOUTH FESTIVAL, VIENNA 1959 15
CUBA TRIP, ARREST AND DETENTION 1960 19
AFRICA AND EAST EUROPEAN TRIP 1961 29
OTHER ACTIVITY 1959-1964 34
CLANDESTINE TRAINING 1961 40
WORLD YOUTH FESTIVEL, HELSINKI 1962 41
TAIWAN AND FAR EAST TRIP 1964 43
WORLD YOUTH FESTIVAL, ALGIERS 1965 44
SOUTH AMER. TRIP, SUMMER 1965 47
OTHER ACTIVITY 1965-1974 53
VIETNAM TRIP 1967-1968 60
EUROPEAN TRIP 1970 63
WORLD YOUTH FESTIVAL, EAST BERLIN 1973 64
INVOLVEMENT IN CUDAN EXILE ACTIVITIES 55
OVERSEAS TRAVEL 68
UTILIZATION, CONTROL AND CASE OFFICERS 73
COVER 101
PERSONAL ACTIVITY 103
TERMINATION 106
CONTACTS AND RELATIONSHIP WITH
JAMES MCCORD, LEE PENNINGTON,
DONALD SWEANY and HOWARD HUNT 109


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRETI

BACKGROUND

Charles William Wiley, lecturer, photographer and free lance journalist, was born 17 November 1926 at Flushing, New York, of American-born parents. He married Katina Calamara, who was born on 18 March 1927 in New York City, on 11 February 1950. They had three children, a daughter, now age 23, and two sons, currently (1974) ages 15 and 13, respectively. Katina died by suicide in April 1973. He currently resides with his two sons in Parlin, New Jersey.

The son of a professional actor, Wiley was, himself, a child actor on stage and radio from 1931-1941. In 1942 and 1943 he toured with U.S.O. shows and from 1943 through 1944, was an assistant stage manager in New York City. From 1933 to 1942, he attended the New York City Professional Children's School. He enlisted in the U. S. Navy and served honorably as a Seaman from November 1944 to July 1946. From 1946 to 1951, he held many part-time and temporary jobs in New York City and Miami, Florida, as a salesman, interviewer, bellhop and U. S. Postal Clerk. From 1949 through 1954 he attended night school at New York University and earned a B. S. degree in Journalism. Also, from 1951 to 1953, he was an underwriter for Guardian Life Insurance Company and from November 1953 to October 1954, an agent for Fidelity Life Insurance Company, both in New York City.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# EVENTS LEADING TO RECRUITMENT

Charles W. Wiley first came to the official attention of the Office of Security (OS) on 9 September 1955, when Carl F. Heney (Executive Officer, OS) forwarded a letter written by Wiley to Ermal Geiss (Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS), who in turn directed the letter to James W. McCord [Security Research Staff of the Office of Security (SRS)]. How Heney obtained the Wiley letter is unknown, inasmuch as the name of the addressee was deleted in the letter. However, the letter was recorded in the Executive Registry under number 6-9881. The Wiley letter is dated 27 April 1955, gives Wiley's address and telephone number, and Wiley advised that he was working on an index of the *Daily Worker* for the years 1933-1945 "and thought that perhaps you might be interested in specific information that I am likely to find."

On 10 September 1955, James W. McCord contacted Wiley in Flushing, New York. At that time, Wiley explained the nature of the index of the *Daily Worker* for the years 1934-1945, by stating that he was preparing the index under a grant from the American Legion Americanism Committee, headed by Lee Pennington (a former employee of the FBI). Wiley started the index in November 1954. Wiley stated he contacted the major government agencies in Washington to ascertain what information in the *Daily Worker* would be of most interest to them, and in addition, contacted a couple of Congressional Committees which McCord surmised were the House Committee on Un-American Activities and the Senate Internal Security Committee. Wiley estimated it would take two and a half years to complete the index. At that time, Wiley was receiving part-time clerical assistance from the Women's Auxiliary of the American Legion Post in Flushing, New York. Wiley also indicated an interest in Agency employment after finishing the index.

The results of McCord's interview with Wiley were brought to the attention of Robert Bannerman, Deputy Director of Security, by 21 November 1955, when Bannerman opined that "this may be valuable."

> [Figure: RECEIVED FROM stamp]
> A stamp says RECEIVED FROM, SEP 30 1975, CIA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

McCord met next with Wiley in Washington, D. C., for two days, ending on 1 December 1955. By that time, Wiley had indexed 150,000 names of the *Daily Worker* covering January 1934 through June 1936. Wiley stated that the FBI in New York City and the American Legion were already making "extensive use" of the index cards. Wiley stated that one of his purposes being in Washington was to secure financing for the index continuation. He stated that his $5000 a year grant from the American Legion Americanism Committee would expire at the end of December 1955, and if negotiations with that body were unsuccessful, he would attempt to secure financing from the Senate and House Investigating Committees. Wiley stated that the FBI has indicated the strongest desire that he continue the indexing but that in his discussion with Mr. DeLoach (Cartha DeLoach, an FBI senior official), no indication of forthcoming financial support from the Bureau for this work was indicated.

In recording this contact with Wiley, McCord opined:

> "I think it is obvious that the index which Wiley is working on would be of considerable value to the Security Ottice and to CIA, particularly since the Communist Party membership and activities during the 1934-40 period were for the most part very open and extensively advertised in the *Daily Worker*. An example of how open their activities were is indicated in the fact that Elizabeth Bentley's name was mentioned in a 1935 issue of the *Daily Worker* at a time prior to her going underground and acquiring a RIS (Russian Intelligence Service) mission. If the *Daily Worker* thus bears a record of (Communist) Party activities of an individual such as Bentley, who later became so prominent in RIS activities in the United States, then the possibility always exists that the names of persons later connected with OSS (Office of Strategic Services) and other governmental activity may also be mentioned in the 1934-40 *Daily Worker* issues, which have heretofore never been indexed by any government agency."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

"Because of the obvious value of having access to such an index, the writer (McCord) recommends that we encourage the continuation of Wiley's index project in any way in which we are able to further such work."

(There is no objective evidence in the file other than the above to support Wiley's contention that he was given encouragement by Mr. DeLoach of the FBI to continue the project.)

The above was brought to the attention of Harlan Westrell (Chief, Counterintelligence Branch, SRS), who in turn brought the matter to the attention of Colonel Sheffield Edwards, Director of Security, circa early December 1955.

Via a memorandum dated 19 December 1955, McCord informed Westrell of the receipt of additional correspondence from Wiley, and McCord included a rehash of the metter including statements:

"I hope the Office of Security can encourage the continuation of the project, at least until the index is completed up through 1940, which would take about another year of work by Wiley. The index has considerable potential CE (counter espionage) value to this Office, for one thing, by virtue of the fact that there will be numerous heretofore unidentified Communists' names turn up in the index, some of whom went underground during the World War II years. The index may give us the one clue necessary to detect any such penetration existing within this Agency. The value in protecting the Agency thereby is of course inestimable. The continuation of the project would have other merits, which we have discussed previously."

McCord also recommended that, should the project fail, the Agency consider employing Wiley.

![RECEIVED ROM, SEP 30 1975, CIA]

- 4 -
  SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

McCord recommended that Wiley had a personal acquaintance with a number of the well-known ex-Communist Party key functionaries, such as Louis Budenz, as well as a personal acquaintance with the heads and research people in all of the Federal Congressional Committees, and State Investigating Committees in New York State.

McCord was next in contact with Wiley on 27 December 1955, receiving an account of pertinent points retrieved by Wiley from the indexing project. In addition, Wiley stated he had discussed the indexing project with Herbert Philbrick (an ex-FBI penetration of the CPUSA), who had a continuing interest in the project and had indicated he would be willing to help Wiley get a job in the newspaper field should the project be terminated. Wiley also commented that he had had lengthy political discussions with Karl Wittfogel (one-time Communist) in recent years, and was in contact with Wittfogel a few weeks before.

Speculation on identity of Private Individual

When McCord's 27 December contact with Wiley was brought to the attention of Bannerman, he directed Westrell to "Explore with Jim Angleton (CI Staff) the possibility of getting about two months' expenses for subject (Wiley) and in the meantime we can complete our clearance of him and try to make out a project. We should also make a survey of his work to be certain a project is justified." Westrell, in turn, directed McCord to talk to Birch O'Neal (CI Staff) about the matter.

In the interim, on 24 December 1955, Wiley completed a Personal History Statement (and a report of medical history) reflecting he had been employed since November 1954

RECEIVED FROM

SEP 20 1975

CIA

-5-

SECRETT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

on a grant from the American Legion, 1608 K. Street, N.W., Washington, D. C., under the supervision of Lee Pennington. As a result, McCord scheduled National Agency Checks in the name of Wiley on 9 January 1956.

On 17 January 1956, McCord informed Westrell, receiving his OK, that Wiley intended to place an article in the monthly newsletter, "Political Research" published by an organization affiliated with the NTS (anti-Soviet Russian emigree organization). The article was to announce Wiley's indexing project and solicit funds.

On 27 January 1956, McCord informed Westrell, Paul F. Gaynor (Chief, SRS), Bannerman and Colonel Edwards of the results of a meeting he had that day discussing Wiley's indexing project with Birch O'Neal and Herman Horton (CI Staff). In essence, it was agreed that some Agency funding of the project should be forthcoming, and Horton evidenced interest in Wiley for CI Staff employment after completion of the project. Both Bannerman and Colonel Edwards evidenced interest in Agency funding of the project, the latter asking for figures as to cost.

McCord was next in direct contact with Wiley in Flushing, New York, on 29 January 1956, obtaining highlights of security interest developed from the indexing.

By 6 February 1956, figures were produced showing that $13,500 would cover one year continuation of the indexing, $7,000 for Wiley, $3,000 for a clerk typist; and $3,000 for part-time help and supplies. On this date, Gaynor noted he "would like to see this project completed if at all possible."

By the first week of March 1956, "front office" verbal approval had been given for OS funding of the project, labeled Operation Recall, concurrent with a meeting between McCord and Wiley and arrangements were made for transporting the completed portion of the index to Washington, D. C. McCord estimated the value of the index at that time as being between $15,000 to $25,000 in labor alone. During this week, favorable National Agency Name Checks were concluded on Wiley and Colonel Edwards and Colonel White had approved using Security Office funds to total $10,000 in all, to continue Wiley's indexing for one additional year. The partially completed index was turned over to the Agency on 8 March 1956.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Following the approval of the project funding, McCord
contacted Lee Pennington, of the Americanism Committee of
the American Legion in Washington, D. C., asking, and
receiving wholehearted agreement, for Pennington to provide.
cover for Wiley's work. The cover arrangements were so
concluded. It was made clear to Wiley that CIA was pur-
chasing the end product of his work and that he was not
now a CIA employee. However, McCord did advise Wiley that
he would attempt to secure Agency employment for him at the
conclusion of the project; and that in the coming year Wiley
should work on the indexing, continue regular contact with
his sources of information in New York City - keeping the
Agency advised of anything that may be pertinent to our
areas of interest, and finally, build a cover story which
would enable Wiley to contact and interview various ex-
Communists and ex-Soviet agents in the New York area.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECRET

## SECURITY PROCESSING

On 9 January 1956, James McCord of SRS requested National Agency Checks (NACs), excluding CIC, to be made on Wiley. These checks were returned on 24 February 1956 and all were either favorable or no record. NACs were again requested on 30 September 1958 and were returned either favorable or no record on 30 October 1958. On 24 November 1958, a Covert Security Approval was issued to the Security Research Staff to permit Wiley's use as a covert associate of the Security Research Staff.

![SEP 1975, CIA stamp]

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 11

-8-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# ACTIVITIES

March 1956 - June 1959

In mid-March 1956, through a letter by McCord extended from his home address, arrangements were made for Wiley to come to Washington, D. C., for three days to brief Hazel Mackie, Personnel Pool (Office of Personnel), on certain administrative matters for the processing and typing of the index. The Personnel Pool work would result in 8 full copies of the index: three copies to the Security Office, one copy to Staff D, one copy to CI Staff, one copy for the FBI, one copy for the American Legion and one copy for Wiley.

(It is presumed that a copy of the index was given to the FBI; however, there is no document which could be located that states a copy was in fact given to the FBI.)

Concurrent with McCord's interest in Wiley, he and Morse Allen (SRS) were working on Operation Recovery, a project set up in 1955 whose objective was gaining access to and debriefing former and known agents of the international Communist movement who were involved in espionage activities directly or indirectly against the U.S. Government. Attendant to this operation, by April 1956, Wiley at the request of McCord had completed:

a. A summary of newspaper items on the Vladimir Asaturov case;

b. A summary of information on the Robert Osman case;

c. A summary of information on the Robert G. Switz case;

d. A summary of information on the Mary Martin espionage case; and

e. A summary of information on the Michael Gorin espionage case.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Wiley was sent his first check covering the index pro- ject on 9 April 1956. By 22 May 1956, he had met Morse Allen.

McCord further reported on 1 May 1956 that during dis- cussion with Wiley he told Wiley that there are three areas in which he could work during the coming year (1956-57) which would be of interest and would enhance his value to CIA. One would be the continuation of the index project, another would be the continuation of regular contact with his sources of information in New York City, keeping CIA advised of anything that may be pertinent to our areas of interest. The third would be the building for him a cover story which would enable him to contact and interview various ex-Communists and ex-Soviet agents in the New York area.

Wiley told McCord that he, Wiley, was in contact with Herbert Philbrick during the spring of 1956, and asked McCord to work on getting him, Wiley, some (American) Legion credentials. Wiley also enclosed reports on one Alexander Koral. He stated he had begun taking Russian. lankuage lessons from a Russian girl working for NTS.

On 20 March 1957, McCord informed his supervisor that Wiley's work on the index project would expire in May 1957. McCord indicated he would like to use Wiley for another year on the indexing project.

On 13 April 1957, Wiley tendered additional materials from the indexing project; a copy of an article by Alfred Kohlberg, "A Red Dream"; an open letter to the President of the United States requesting either a new trial or par- don for Morton Sobell, attaching a list of 200 signers; and a list of publications and organizations fighting Communism in the U.S. prepared by Herb Philbrick, given to Wiley. Wiley was advised that he may be called upon soon to work on some material on Soviet Espionage (David Dallin material, a noted author of books on Soviet Intelligence), requiring about one month's work; that he may be called upon to fol- low the Albam (Jacob Albam) trial developments in the press; and that an attempt would be made to renew his grant for another year.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

On 21 June 1957, Harlan A. Westrell, Chief, SRS, requested the Director of Security for authorization to continue the *Daily Worker* indexing project for one year which had yielded approximately 500,000 names in the index. On 22 August 1957, Sheffield Edwards, Director of Security, requested and received, such authorization for circa $10,000 from the Deputy Director of Support.

During this period (1956-1959), Wiley worked with Herbert Philbrick on a book which Philbrick was preparing entitled *"The Most Dangerous Group in the World."* He also was "building his cover" as a newspaperman and had numerous contacts with Earl Browder (ex-chairman of the CPUSA).

From 5 to 19 January 1959, Wiley made a fact-finding trip through the Mid-West and the Southeastern states of the U.S. contacting newspapers, "conservative" individuals, police agencies, and information repositories to determine the extent of their information concerning Communism and the Communist movement.

During the summer of 1959, SRS initiated and completed a study through Wiley of the Columbia University newspaper, *"Spectator"* and the City College of New York newspaper. This, unlike the *Daily Worker* index, was a study of the various issues for information pertaining to Communists and radical organizations and individuals. Don Ingles, Wiley's cousin, conducted the study and was paid for his time.

Financial records indicate that the indexing project's gross funding from March 1956 through May 1957 was $10,000. Out of that amount, Wiley was given $8,600 in salary and the other $1,400 was for expenses. The same total amount was approved for the period June 1957 through May 1958 and was expended as follows: $7,900 for salary payments and $2,100 for expenses. A like amount ($10,000) was set aside for the period June 1958 through June 1959 and expended at the rate of $734.17 per month in salary payments and the rest, $265.83, in expenses.

In connection with the index, Wiley was also given specific requests to compile reports on several individuals and organizations which were of peripheral interest.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

On 30 April 1958, Wiley prepared a report on his contact (Charles Raphael) with the International Commission of Jurists, and the location of possible files on Soviet Espionage Commissioned by Philip Chancellor to be gathered by Sidney McLaglen.

On 2 May 1958, Wiley prepared a report on his chance meeting with Vladimir Oserov, Tass reporter.

Wiley reported that on 28 June 1958, he attended a birthday cocktail party at the apartment of and for Dr. J.B. Matthews, and identified others in attendance.

On 6 December 1956 (sic), Wiley reported receiving a call from J.B. Matthews inquiring about Jack Rubenstein (Rubinstein).

In the fall of 1958, Wiley reported meeting JoAnn Mellors, from England, active in the anti-Communist organization Common Cause.

On 1 November 1958, Wiley prepared a report on the "Links Between the Anti-Defamation League and the CIA in the Middle East," following a conversation with Michael Rich.

On 8 December 1958, Wiley prepared a report on a contact with Colonel Aharon Yariv, an Israeli Embassy official. On 3 March 1959, this report was sent by Helene Finan to James McCord and Clifton Carrico.

In March 1959, Wiley prepared four reviews of articles appearing in 1941 and 1942 editions of *Social Justice Magazine* pertaining to General Walter G. Krivitsky.

On 19 April 1959, Wiley prepared a report covering his introduction to Haviv Shiber, General Secretary of the Anti-Communist League in Israel. There is a notation on the report that Wiley was going to give the information also to the FBI.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIP - July 1959

On 1 July 1959, this Agency entered into contract with Wiley, as an independent contractor, at the salary rate of $9,100 per annum, with additional compensation in the amount of 5% of the above sum, to be paid in quarterly installments, representing the Government's contribution toward Wiley's choice of programs for insurance, retirement, medical and health. The contract specified that he would be reimbursed for operational travel as directed by OS, and for other approved operational expenses, subject to accounting applicable with Government regulations.

The annual compensation was subsequently increased on 1 July 1960 to $9,900 per annum and on 1 July 1961 to $10,500 per annum, plus additional 5% as noted above. Salary has remained at the latter level to the date of his termination. The contract was to run for an indefinite period, and could be terminated without notice in the event of a breach of contract or by Wiley rendering himself unavailable for acceptable service, and could otherwise be terminated by either Wiley or the Agency with 90 days' notice.

From 1955 to 1959, Wiley was paid in cash, and for several years after the contract was signed, officers of SRS continued to pay Wiley his salary either in cash or through bank money orders. In 1964 payments of salary were made by the Office of Finance directly into his bank account in New York City.

From 1959 to the present time, SRS obtained a copy of each year's Federal Income Tax Return, and on at least two occasions, Wiley was given a personal briefing on the management of the Agency funds, vis-a-vis income from his self-established firm, World News Analysis, by Agency Finance Officers. In 1964, because of his failure to comply with the SRS's instructions to furnish complete details on his claimed expenses, the regular payment of "operational" expenses was terminated, necessitating that he reduce expenses which were not reimburseable from the firm's income.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

Regarding his overseas travel, for the early years, he was reimbursed in toto for travel expenses. However, once World News Analysis had become established and had acquired some regular source of income, the reimbursements for his overseas travel was decreased, and only a token contribution was made toward lengthy trips.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

ACTIVITIES, July 1959 - January 1974

WORLD YOUTH FESTIVAL, VIENNA 1959

Shortly after Wiley signed his contract with this Agency, he became involved in the World Youth Festival (WYF) held in Vienna during July 1959.

A memo dated 19 February 1959 to the Acting Chief, SRS, from Helene Finan (SRS) reports on a meeting between Finan and Wiley at which Wiley furnished information relative to the forthcoming WYF to be held in Europe in mid-summer 1959. According to this memo and an accompanying one, Wiley said that Herb Romerstein (ex-Communist and HCUA employee), with the aid of Alfred Kohlberg (NYC importer and long-time anti-Communist activitist) and Colonel Archibald Roosevelt, has a project extant to send a delegation of 10 or more people to the WYF in Vienna in July, along with the left-wing American delegation. Romerstein, who is running the "show" for us (Finan's words) has asked Wiley to help and Wiley will, but not in an overt manner. Wiley told Romerstein the project was his and Wiley should not be given any prominence. Wiley and his wife will sign up next week. Don Sweeny (sic) of the American Legion and several individuals from various state police will also be among the group witting of the project. The group, probably no more than 10 in all, will attempt subtle propaganda, will sit singley throughout the hall and interject controversial or embarrassing topics into discussions. Wiley will play the role of the typical American with his ever-ready camera. Wiley will also work on behalf of the I&NS in gathering names and pictures.

Helene Finan reported on 12 March 1959 to the AC/SRS that Wiley will attend the WYF in Vienna in summer of 1959 for us (SRS). A 17 March 1959 memo states Wiley will leave New York with the delegation on 20 June 1959. After the Festival, the group (less Katina Wiley) plans to spend three weeks in the USSR as members of the U.S. delegation to the Festival. Wiley later changed his plans to include a visit to Europe and the Middle East before and to Europe and England after the Vienna and USSR phases of the trip.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

On 18 May 1959, Morse Allen wrote a memo to the
Chief, SRS that Wiley is now a newspaperman and a maga-
zine writer, accredited under the auspices of the North
American Newspaper Alliance, the Spades Syndicate, The
Indianapolis Star, The Richmond Times Dispatch and pro-
bably several other publications. Wiley is a member of
an anti-Communist group privately sponsored who will attend
the Vienna Youth Festival and will make themselves known
during the Festival. Wiley will probably cover the Festi-
val for the Newhouse Newspaper Chain, National Review and
U.S. News and World Report. He has received $500 in pri-
vate subscriptions to cover the cost of his transportation
to the WYF. The cost of his proposed itinerary amounts to
$1,056.70 for transportation. Allen recommended the Office
of Security pay the additional cost of $556.70 with the
understanding that any remuneration received from his
writings be offset on an equitable basis.

On 19 May 1959, James McCord noted to Allen, "Ok, see
me," referring to the request to approve the additional
cost and possible later offset. There is a 16 June report
From Wiley acknowledging receipt of $556.70.

The New York Times reported on 3 August 1959 that
Charles Wiley, his wife, and Joanne Mellor, a British sub-
ject living in New York City, were "roughed up" when they
attempted to join a parade of Eastern Bloc delegates to
the WYF. Wiley and company waited until the parade had
started and then unfolded their banners with such slogans
as "Remember Hungary," "Remember Tibet," and "What About
Soviet Imperialism?" That incident got much press cover-
age, particularly because Wiley's wife was obviously preg-
nant.

A 14 September 1959 memo for the record from Wiley
reflects that in a meeting with staff members of the HCUA,
Wiley was instrumental in talking HCUA out of holding
hearings which would be intended partially to expose the
alleged inept, but expensive, effort made by CIA to infii-
trate the WYF with a large group under cover of the Inde-
pendent Service Committee. The Director of Security memo-
randa concerning the foregoing was forwarded to the Legis-
lative Counsel on the 16th and 25th of September 1959 and
the 27th of October 1959. They were also forwarded to the
Office of the DCI.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

In February 1960, Wiley did testify before HCUA as
an expert regarding the 7th WYF and covered "violence"
against himself and other anti-Communists and the Commu-
nist dominance of delegations.

On or about 1 April 1960, the House Committee on
Un-American Activities was interested in consultations
with Wiley based on articles by Wiley appearing in the
*American Legion Magazine*, *Elks magazine*, *National Review*, and the *Ukranian Quarterly*, apparently based on Wiley's
observations of Iron Curtain countries derived from his
travels to the USSR, the World Youth Festival in Vienna,
and other Iron Curtain countries during the summer of
1959. (In February 1960, Wiley had testified before
HCUA about his experiences at the Vienna Youth Festival.)
The HCUA staff members interested in Wiley were Francis
McNamara and Richard Arens.

During the course of his trip to the WYF, Wiley
apparently drew some official attention to himself in
Israel.

Circa 20 August 1959, a State Department memorandum
was forwarded to McCord regarding conversations William
Anthony, Press Officer, American Embassy, Tel Aviv, Israel,
had with Wiley at the American Embassy on 20 and 21 July
1959. In substance, Anthoney stated Wiley represented
himself as a columnist connected with the "Newhouse Chain"
but in his questioning of Anthony about Israeli politics,
he (Wiley) "tries to give the impression he either is in
or just outside the Washington intelligence community."
Upon receipt of this memo, McCord advised Morse Allen,
SRS, "We need to straighten Wiley out on being too clan-
destine."

Circa September 1959, Wiley prepared five reports
relevant to some of his travels to the Middle East, Soviet
Union and Austria attendant to activities of the World
Youth Festival in Vienna in the summer of 1959. One report
concerned a former Syrian Communist leader (Elias Mourkos);
and Syrian intelligence agents. Another concerned Wiley's
observations as of 9 August 1959 when he was in Kiev, USSR,
relative to an anti-regime student in Kiev. A third report

![RECEIVED FROM, SEP 1975, CIA]

-17-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

concerned the presence of Anthony Churchill at the Vienna Youth Festival from late July to early August 1959. A fourth report concerned Wiley's meeting with one Damdindorje in Cairo, Egypt, on 2 July 1959 who Wiley characterized as a possible defector from the Mongolian Peoples' Republic; and the fifth report pertained to the possible compromise through Soviet guides of the Yale Chorus Group in the USSR in July 1959.

In the fall of 1959, Wiley prepared three additional reports attendant to his travels involving the World Youth Festival in the summer of 1959. One report concerned the presence of Chua Cheng Lok at the Youth Festival; another concerned Wiley's meeting with Dr. Waldemar Wajszczuk on a train travelling between the Soviet border at Brest and Warsaw on 16 August 1959, who Wiley characterized as a possible Polish defector; coupled with a report on Wiley's meeting with Bogdan Kolodziejski and Jerzy Solecki in Vienna in late July 1959, who Wiley characterized as "Polish journalists (intelligence agent?)"; and a third concerned a 29 June 1959 meeting in Belgrade with Tom Duckinovic, characterized as a defector from Yugoslavia.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# CUBA TRIP, ARREST AND DETENTION, 1960

(There is no conclusive evidence such as formal memoranda in the file to indicate that this Agency initiated action to send Wiley to Cuba. However, inferences from routing slips, memoranda and expense voucher payments would indicate that this trip was for CIA. Contrary to inferences by SRS officers, there is no indication, again such as a formal memorandum, in the Wiley files that he, under CIA instruction, courted arrest and detention so that he could find out information about the three staff employees who were imprisoned there. This does not preclude that there might not be written notes of such a plan buried in other files. The best indicator is Paul Gaynor's comment on a routing slip to CIA Cover Employee dated 2 February 1970, "His (Wiley's) imprisonment in Cuba was an operation on behalf of FE-TSD-OS-DCI-DDP.")

On 9 August 1960, Wiley reported the following information to Morse Allen of SRS concerning his trip to Cuba:

Mr. Wiley arrived in Havana the morning of 26 July 1960 and was arrested in Havana at the Libre Hotel at approximately 7:00 p.m. on the evening of 27 July 1960. During the period between his arrival and his arrest, Mr. Wiley stated that he had made no business type contacts and that he had merely wandered about the streets of Havana looking for news items. (Wiley is covered as a correspondent for radio station WOR of New York City plus other newspaper correspondent type coverage.) During this period, Wiley stated he contacted Ruby Phillips of the New York Times and he met and talked with Dave Webber, a stringer for NBC who was staying at the Libre Hotel. In addition, Wiley stated that he had spent a certain amount of time doing nothing but moving about the Libre Hotel. Wiley stated further that during the 26th and on the 27th he had been interviewing delegates to the Latin American Youth Congress then convening in Havana, Cuba. During these interviews, Wiley had acted as a typical newspaperman and had with him a tape recorder which he had brought with him when he came into Cuba and which he had previously registered with the Cuban customs authorities.

![received from]

- 19 -

![secret]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

Wiley stated that the actual arrest came about in the following way. He stated that he had talked with a young man from the United States. The young Cuban who was obviously violently pro-Castro and also had talked with a young man from the United States. The young Cuban had been telling Wiley that everything was fine in Cuba and that it was not a police state and he was conducting his discussion with this young Cuban in more or less routine reported style when all of a sudden a police officer with two others moved to the table where he was sitting and stated that they wanted to talk to Wiley outside. Wiley asked the ranking officer who he was and was told that he was the Chief of the Public Relations of the Youth Congress. However, after some argument, Wiley was forcibly taken outside although not roughed up by the two assistants to the ranking police officer and also taken at the same time was the young Cuban whom Wiley had been interviewing. All these police officers were in plain clothes.

Wiley stated that they were placed in a car and taken directly to G-2 Headquarters in the Miromar Section of Havana which is a building between 14th Street and Fifth Avenue and bears the number 1210 (this address known to the United States Embassy). Wiley stated that during the ride in the car to the G-2 Headquarters, he needled the young Cuban who kept insisting that this was not an arrest and seemed shocked by the whole performance. Wiley added that this Cuban, as far as he knows, was dismissed from the prison after a statement had been taken from him by the police the same evening.

Wiley stated that he was taken to a reception type of room in the G-2 Headquarters and to his complete amazement some fifteen minutes after he was taken there, into the reception room came Jake Rosen, a well known New York Communist whom Wiley spoke to and positively identified and another U.S. Communist whom Wiley identified as being one of those who was on tour of the Soviet Union with Wiley after he had gone to the Vienna Youth Festival previously. Wiley stated that he could not recall the name of the second Communist but stated he could be identified since Wiley has a photograph of him at his residence. Rosen and this other Communist were dirty and their feet


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

covered with mud and he learned later from one of the
guards in the reception room that both of these men had
come from Sierra Maestre where they had been visiting.

Wiley said he talked to Rosen and there could be no
question of his identity. (NOTE: In discussing the iden-
tity of these individuals with Wiley, it was agreed that a
possible examination of both cases would be in order since
a possibility exists that Rosen and the other Communist
were illegally in Cuba.)

Following this short period of time in the reception
room, Wiley was placed in a cell in the jail about 9 x 15
feet long which contained six bunks and 15 other prisoners.
Wiley stated that in this cell he met FNU Acosta, a man
named Costas and Major Gallo Martinez whom Wiley described
as the former Adjutant General of Castro's Army.

Wiley stated that after about one hour in the cell,
the guards came and took him to another room for interro-
gation. On the way to the interrogation room, Wiley stated
he saw Jake Rosen and the other aforementioned man in one
of the inner offices and both seemed in high spirits.
Wiley commented that he had learned later from other pri-
sonsers that Rosen and this other individual had complete
run of the Headquarters and were allowed to make phone calls
and Wiley stated that he established through other prisoners
that Rosen had made at least three phone calls; one to the
National Hotel, one possibly to the United States Embassy
and one to an unknown private number. Wiley also learned
that at one of the three numbers Rosen spoke to someone
for about an hour and apparently this someone was known
as "Mike." Wiley stated that he also learned that the two
Communists were seen with Captain Alvarez of G-2 and were
observed on most friendly terms with Alvarez and were, in
fact, reported as being arm in arm with Alvarez. One pri-
soner believed that they were talking about Wiley since
this prisoner overheard the name "Cholly" (ph), the way
Cubans referred to Wiley's first name Charles.

According to Wiley, the interrogation was conducted
by the previously mentioned Alvarez and a Cuban woman who
claimed that she had been arrested by the FBI recently in


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

Miami, Florida, and further claimed that she had been
slapped by an FBI agent. Wiley stated that this woman
mentioned the name of the man but he cannot as yet recall
the agent's name. Wiley also believed that the arrest had
occurred in Miami within the last few months, also no speci-
fic date of arrest was mentioned. Wiley stated that Alvarez
and the woman both spoke English although not well.

Wiley stated that the interrogation was strictly rou-
tine. They wanted to know why he was in Cuba, when he had
arrived, had he ever been in Cuba before, who he worked
for, etc. Wiley stated that he worked for radio station
WOR and that he held strictly to his newspaper correspon-
dent cover. Wiley stated that Alvarez attempted to talk
tough at times but Wiley laughed at him and denounced the
Cuban police, the Cuban military and the Cuban government
to Alvarez and, in fact, invited Alvarez to do anything
he wanted to. Wiley stated he bluntly asked Alvarez just
why he was arrested and according to Alvarez said "we
think you are an FBI spy." Wiley stated that he pointed
out the stupidity of Alvarez to his face and that Alvarez
from time to time became furious during the interrogation.

Wiley stated that the interrogation which was com-
pletely fruitless lasted about twenty minutes, at the
conclusion of which he was given a sandwich and was told
that he would be released in the morning. Wiley stated
that he demanded that he be allowed to call the U.S. Em-
bassy but this was denied. Because of this, Wiley stated
that he wouldn't eat a thing until the U.S. Embassy or
one of their representatives had made contact with him.
He stated that he took the sandwich and gave it to some
prisoners. Wiley stated at the conclusion of this interro-
gation he was taken to a different cell which he described
as being about 15 x 15 feet having triple bunks in the cell
occupied by 26 other men whom Wiley described as MRR types.
Wiley described this cell as filthy, no ventilation, no
lights. He stated he spent seven days in this cell and in
fact went on a hunger strike. He stated he refused to eat
anything and touched no food except on the Sunday following
his arrest after he had been promised his release the fol-
lowing morning at which time he had a little soup and some
other food. He added however because his release was not
forthcoming as agreed, he went on another hunger strike and
had no food until he was released on the following Wednes-
day, 3 AP

SEP 30 1975

CIA

-22-

SECRETI

NW 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 25


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

Wiley stated that there was no other attempt at interrogation made either directly or indirectly during his stay.. He stated that on Saturday night an official from the U.S. Embassy visited him. Wiley did not know this man's name and Mr. Kessler from the Embassy who has been previously mentioned visited him Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Wiley commented that prior to his release he gave what he regarded as significant information (which will be referred to in the second section of this report) to Kessler, since he thought the information should be surfaced and he could not tell how long he would be kept in the prison. Wiley cautioned the writer at this time the possible compromise of his connections if this information was handled incorrectly.

Wiley stated that he suffered no particular harassments while in the prison. He stated that some of the guards talked tough and tried to act tough but Wiley stated he behaved in his completely stubborn and obstreperous manner at all times and refused to cooperate in every possible way. He stated that the regular prison guards were friendly and he had no trouble with them but the special military guards and the army type were the constant subjects of his scorn and hostility. He stated that as a form of annoyance he was told twice that he was going to leave and then after he had prepared to leave, he was told that it was a mistake and that his leaving had been cancelled.

Wiley stated that on Friday or Saturday in the morning which had been the 29th or 30th of July he was checked over by a doctor at the prison for fungus infection and because of the fact that he was on a hunger strike and that it was obvious that he was weak from hunger, Wiley said nothing came of this but on Tuesday the 2nd of August, he was taken within the prison to a doctor who immediately sent him to a hospital, address unknown (in Havana), Camp Libertad. At this hospital Wiley was given a check up and he was told he would have to eat. Wiley stated that he would resist any effort to force feed him and he refused to take any food and any medication from a Cuban doctor or Cuban attendant. Wiley said that at the hospital he was placed in a psycho cell with about twelve persons some of whom Wiley thought were political types but most of whom were criminally


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRETI

insane. Wiley commented that obviously the prison atten-
dants and officials were very worried about Wiley's health
because of his refusal to eat and he was constantly being
checked by various doctors. Wiley stated that he was re-
leased from the hospital and was given back all of his
effects except his tape recorder and his hat. On Wednes-
day, 3 August, he was released.

Wiley commented that the individuals who were political
prisoners impressed him very much; they seemed "real men"
and were fanatically anti-Castro; most as far as Wiley could
tell were connected with the MRR. He stated the regular
guards were obnoxious and were detested by the prisoners.
He commented that the G-2 Headquarters, as far as he could
tell, had been in operation somewhat over two months and
that they had probably processed over 5,000 prisoners
since he recalled seeing the number attached to his card
as 5028.

Wiley commented that while at the hospital a civil
officer, Rolando Fiallo, came to his cell and acted as an
interpreter. Fiallo told Wiley that he wanted to help him
and offered to do anything for him that he could. Accord-
ing to wiiey, Fiailo appeared to be a strong anti-Castio
type who had a great desire to come to the United States.
Fiallo told Wiley that he had a good friend who was an
important defector from the Cuban Embassy in Mexico.
Wiley commented that Fiallo sounded very honest but that
he could not tell whether this man was a plant or not.

Wiley stated that while he was in prison, guards
brought in a man by the name of Leonardo Julio Walter, an
Argentine doctor. Wiley stated that he found out that this
Walter had been picked up at the airport as soon as he had
landed and that when he was placed in the cell with Wiley
and the others, the doctor gave the impression of a per-
fectly furious individual. According to Wiley, Dr. Walter
kept insisting that he was a friend of "Che" Gueverra.
Walter was an obnoxious type, according to Wiley, and
stated time and time again emphatically that he hated all
North Americans and in no circumstances would he treat
them medically. Wiley could not understand why this man
was brought into the prison but reported it simply as an
incident of interest.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

Set out below are items of particular interest which have been reported in more specific terms by Mr. Wiley to assist Chief, SRS and are set forth below for record:

Wiley reported that MRR source who was interrogated said that a man FNU Gorky was a Russian or East German who sits in on all interrogations of political prisoners at the G-2 Headquarters Building. According to Wiley, this man does not speak Spanish and his source could furnish no description.

According to Wiley, an MRR source told him that he had received the following information from another MRR man who worked at the place mentioned. This source reported that there were twenty crated MIG fighter planes at the San Antonio "bath" (Wiley could not recall the Spanish word used here). This source stated that this was an air base built by the U.S. Government. The source further reported that he had heard that between 30 and 35 Cuban pilots were presently in Czechoslovakia on a seven months training course getting instructions for flying the aforementioned MIG fighters.

Wiley stated that he had given full details concerning the Soviet freighter that had come in with the large crates to Assistant Chief, SRS. Wiley stated that it was most interesting that his source told him that the freighter had come through Cuban customs and into the harbor without any routine harbor clearance and had swung immediately into its berth along side one of the Havana docks. According to Wiley the source was one of the longshoremen who had been impressed to unload this Soviet freighter. The crates unloaded were enormous being 70 feet long approximately. Source also stated that one of the crates had broken but because of the careful packing of whatever it contained, source was unable to identify its contents. According to Wiley, these huge crates were placed on big trucks and were taken to specific areas, each one accompanied by jeeps. Wiley himself could offer no explanation of the crates or what they were made of nor the size or capacity of the trucks that moved these large crates. Apparently Wiley's source could furnish no additional details other than those given to Assistant Chief, SRS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

Wiley stated that he learned from a former police-
man who served under Batista that every G-2 station in
Havana had cached 400 Czech machine guns and approximately
two million rounds of ammunition. Source told Wiley that
he knew this to be true because he had worked putting these
items there. Wiley himself definitely discount's this story.

Wiley reported that a source had obtained from another
source who worked at this place that there were 200 Russian
or East German (European) technicians at the Baracoa (ph)
base.

Wiley reported that he had received information that
at Marianu or Marianal there had been observed a number of
pairs of cranes. These pairs of cranes consisted of a large
crane and a small crane which are apparently built together
and are so designed that they are used for handling odd
shaped or unusual sized material. No other details given.

Wiley stated that inside the prison cell while he was
first incarcerated, he heard that the Cuban police claimed
that they had in prison the head of the sabotage group,
the head of the Activist group and the Chief of Finance
of the MRR movement in Havana. Wiley stated that he goi
pretty close to the men in the cell. They apparently
liked him and in fact talked quite freely to him and that
when he mentioned this to several of these individuals, the
various men did not deny to him the above. Wiley said that
these prisoners admitted that they were connected with and
were leaders of one of the two major sections of the MRR in
Havana.

Wiley stated that one of the above mentioned men whose
name is Hermando Marchecho claimed that while being interro-
gated he was able to see reports which were signed by three
or four individuals which he recognized as double agents in
the ranks of MRR. Marchecho stated that as far as he was
concerned, the appearance of these names on reports indicated
that a heavy penetration of the MRR had been made by Castro's
intelligence. According to Wiley, Marchecho was completely
discouraged by this but nevertheless clearly indicated to
Wiley that he and his associates and his organization would
continue the struggle against Castro.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

which he could then be considered an expert. Subject has contacted a number of organizations in radio, television, newspapers and magazines who had evidenced an interest in securing from him stories, pictures and taped interviews. Approval for the trip was requested and $3,000 toward financing of this trip. He was to depart toward the end of May and return around the first of August. The memo is initialed "OS/SE" (SE being Sheffield Edwards, Director of Security).

Ultimately his travel voucher covering this trip reflected expenses of $4,544.38 with $3,000 advanced and the "balance not claimed." His cover accounting for 7(6)-6/62 lists "Deficit on trip to Asia" 1,544.38 as an expense and is offset against listed income for that period. Besides other countries he was in during the period 5/15 to 8/18/62, he spent 12 days in the USSR and 14 days in Helsinki.

In September 1962, Wiley reported on an item from a September 1962 edition of the National Review concerning a statement by Red China's Marshal Chen.

Sometime in the fall of 1962, Wiley submitted three reports relevant to a trip he made during the summer of 1967. One report covered reports Wiley made to the U.S. Embassies in 1962, reflecting that after travelling through Sydney, Australia, Wiley contacted Rollard Haggart Bushner, American Embassy, Djakarta, in early June, reporting that the Dutch were preparing to pull out of New Guinea; that in late June Wiley gave a copy of an exclusive interview with President Diem of Vietnam to Robert Francis Krill, a USIS official in Vientiane; and that in late July (1962) Wiley contacted the political section of the American Embassy in Helsinki reporting information he had obtained in Samarkand and Tashkent, Soviet Union. In each case he identified himself only as a newsman who thought he should report interesting information to his government. Wiley also reported to SRS interesting persons visiting the USSR in July 1962, to wit: Cyla Singer and Professor and Mrs. Quincy Wright, who he met in Tashkent; and Douglas A. Dawkins, who he met in Tbilisi. He also formally reported on Ed Leland, who he met in mid-June 1962 on a flight from Phom Penh to Saigon. In addition, he formally reported information he received from an enlisted man at the U.S. Air Station in Peshawar, Pakistan, in early June 1962, concerning overflights by U.S. jets in Southern USSR.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# TAIWAN AND FAR EAST TRIP - 1964

According to a memorandum dated 27 October 1964 from Morse Allen to Chief, SRS, the "Chinat" government offered Wiley a two week, all expense paid, round trip to Taiwan as a result of Wiley's *American Legion* magazine article on Tibet. Wiley will lecture and talk in Taiwan, and his planned departure was on or about 5 November 1964.

Allen recommended that Wiley be authorized to proceed in this trip without any outside instruction in targets. Allen further recommended that Wiley be given money in amount of $500 to $1,000 to permit him to take advantage of the "Chinat" trip and make a "free lance" trip through Far East (Tokyo, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Thailand, Vietnam, Malaysia) and return via Manila, P.I.

Paul F. Gaynor, Chief, SRS, noted in a slip of paper attached to Allen's memorandum that the Director of Security approved $1.000 advance on 28 October 1964. Wiley acknowledged reccipt of the $1,000 cash on 10 November 1964.

On 16 February 1965, an accounting for the above trip was submitted by Wiley and $37.28 of the $1,000 advanced was returned as the unused portion of the advance.

In the interim, by 16 November 1964, Wiley had contacted Radio Free Europe in New York on his own, and had been slated to do research on the Far East utilizing RFE files or in conjunction with RFE officials. Wiley was also scheduled to act as a free lance interviewer and reporter during the course of an impending trip to the Far East. Through efforts of SRS, this activity on the part of Wiley was curtailed.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET

# WORLD YOUTH FESTIVAL, ALGIERS - 1965

The 9th Communist sponsored WYF, after early speculation as to the probable site at which it would be held, was finally announced for Algeria from 27 July to 6 August 1965. This WYF, however, was cancelled in late June 1965 despite the advance planning and arrangements that had gone into it.

An August 13, 1964, memo from Morse Allen to C/SRS, Subject: 9th WYF, concerns what, if anything, SRS and/or Wiley might do regarding the probable holding of a 9th WYF during the summer of 1965. Wiley had several weeks earlier reminded Allen that he, Wiley, had attended the last one at Helsinki and had been active in the "disruption of that festival." Wiley wanted to know if SRS had any planned operations in connection with 9th or had SRS given any thought to setting up some plans. He pointed out that it would take considerable time to exccute plans for another penetration effort. Allen told Wiley that Wiley was coo old and too well known to spearhead any U.S. activities in that direction. Allen said Wiley could, however, organize and direct it, possibly from without the area, if it were decided for SRS to take part. Wiley indicated that he would be perfectly willing to commence working on it and to direct the operations from behind the scenes. Allen asked Wiley to write up and submit a proposal regarding same if he had a chance. Allen suggested to C/SRS that the matter of penetration and a disruptive effort in connection with the 9th WYF be given consideration in the near future.

An October 1, 1964, memo for the record by Morse Allen records an interview he had with Wiley on 30 September 1964. One long paragraph titled "Communist Youth Festival, Algiers, July 1965" notes that Wiley had spearheaded anti-Communist attacks on Youth Festivals in Vienna and in Helsinki previously, has disrupted their programs, and has to a considerable extent interfered with their propaganda at these festivals. Because of this, Wiley is interested once again in divisive and disruptive efforts against the Communists in Algiers in 1965. This time Wiley states


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

SECRET

that it would be impossible to bring a big group to Algiers and would in fact be dangerous because of the attitude of the Moroccan government. Wiley believes that it would be best to have a small team of 3 to 6 trained individuals who could proceed to the Youth Festival at Algiers and who would be directed not at disruption or propaganda, but would aim at intelligence gathering. Wiley himself stated that he would again volunteer to go to Algiers at this time, not ostensibly connected with the aforementioned group, and only as a free lance newspaperman. Wiley pointed out that undoubtedly he is now the top news authority in the U.S. on CP Youth Festivals. Wiley states that he believes he can arrange financing from private organizations and individuals for the 3 to 6 individuals mentioned above and possibly enough for travel by himself although this may not be obtainable. Wiley requests a study of this matter and advice.

Ethel Mendoza, SRS, received a phone call from Wiley on 30 March 1965, wherein Wiley advised he had mailed material to Mendoza she had requested. Wiley further advised he was then on a lecture tour of the United States. Wiley also discussed a previously proposed trip to Algiers to cover the World Youth Festival and requested information as to whether he would be allowed to cover the festival. Paul F. Gaynor recorded that the Director of Security gave his approval on 31 March 1965, but that Wiley's activity at the festival should be as a passive observer only.

A note dated 12 April 1965 to Chief, SRS from Ethel Mendoza regarding a 9 April 1965 phone conversation with Wiley states that in view of Wiley's plan to attend the Youth Festival in August, she suggested that he not repay the $1,000 advance for the China trip, but keep it until he is assured of complete outside financing for the Algiers trip. He would, as in the past, utilize this fund to cover any deficit for his own travel costs; not for any of the group which he supervises at the festival. Wiley also inquiried as to extending his travel in August to include 4-6 weeks in South America. Also, regarding Algiers financing, Mendoza said she learned only very recently that the anticipated funding in some part will come from the backers of the American Security Council.

RECEIVED FROM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

- 45 -

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 33


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

An April 16, 1965, note from Mendoza to C/SRS advised that CA Staff (Covert Action Staff of the DD/P) is definitely planning to send an American group to the 9th WYF in Algiers, 27 July - 6 August 1965 and some of the DDP area divisions also plan to infiltrate some of the foreign country groups.

A 21 June 1965 memo from Wiley reflects the status of his fund raising activities for the 9th WYF project and some data regarding the project. Funds raised to that date were some $1,485 or more under auspices of "Christianform, Inc." Wiley said the goal is to send 6 delegates, 5 young men and a girl with a seventh person in Algiers outside the delegation. He will take no active part in the project than to keep in touch through the coordinator outside the delegation. Among other things, each delegate is to get as much information as possible about the U.S. delegation, including photos. On return, all information on domestic leftists will be given to the FBI directly by the delegates. Wiley said there is good hope that the projected budget of $3,000 will be fulfilled and that none of the money raised for this project will be used to pay Wiley's expenses. They will be covered by the Cover Organization earnings.

Although the WYF was belatedly cancelled in late June, Wiley did follow through with the So. American phase of his planned travel. Expense and travel vouchers reflect that Wiley was in the U.S. in July and in the U.S. and South America in August and September 1965.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SOUTH AMERICAN TRIP - SUMMER 1965

Notes in early July 1965 indicate Wiley was planning a trip also to South America. There is indication he was to be in Washington, D.C., for SRS consultation on 12, 13 and 14 July 1965.

Sometime in July 1965, Wiley prepared a memorandum which he captioned "Re: Proposed South American Trip - July 1965." He suggested private financing and gave his targets as the political and military situation especially Castro/Communist influence and insurgency war danger.

There are notes of discussion with Wiley on 15, 20 and 27 July 1965.

In response to a request from Morse Allen, Wiley prepared a partial list of his potential contact's for the South American trip and submitted the list on 27 July 1965. Paul F. Gaynor noted, "Ok to make trip to South American per Director of Security 7/23/65. P. F. Gaynor, SRS/OS." Wiley listed numerous personalities in South America apparently resulting from suggestions to Wiley by the following:

Admiral Radford, who suggested Wiley contact

Brig. Gen, Vernon "Dick" Walters in Rio de Janeiro

Norman Carignan, W. R. Grace Co.

Meade Brunet, RCA International Operations

Spruille Braden


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

Michael J. Malone, rep of U.S.
businesses in South America

Among the numerous potential contacts listed by Wiley were Paul Bethel and Jules Dubois who Wiley was told to avoid because they were being watched by local services in South America. Wiley was told to be careful in contacts with Manuel Artime and the DRE representatives.

On 30 July 1965, Allen met with Wiley in Washington, D.C., giving him instructions and a briefing for the South American trip. This data was formalized into a memorandum by Allen on 5 August 1965 and forwarded to Chief/SRS, P. F. Gaynor. Allen recorded:

"1 - On Friday, 30 July 1965, pursuant to instruction from Chief, SRS, the writer met Wiley at the Washington National Airport and talked with him concerning his pending trip to South America."

"2 - Wiley was given a series of suggestions and certain instructions which are set forth following:

a. He was under no circumstances to visit Latin America and the trip was to include only countries on the continent of South America, starting at Panama and thence South.

b. He was not to see either Paul Bethel or Jules Dubois.

c. If he saw any of the Cuban colony in Miami on his way South, he was to stick strictly to his cover and he should remember that most of these people were connected with the Agency


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

and would report the contact. He was specif- ically told to avoid Enrique Abascal.

d. Concerning the DRE representatives in any contacts either in Miami or in South America, he was to use extreme caution for two reasons: (1) Many are now or have been on our payroll and they would report any contact; (2) Many of these people are unreliable and some are clearly left wing.

e. He was told that he was at all cost to avoid risk of capture and was certainly not to subject himself to unnecessary hazard. (He was specifically told to stay only at the best hotels since low-grade hotels in South America often constitute a personal security risk.

f. He was told that he should use utmost discretion in contacting U.S. officials since many of these-- State, USIA, AID would report his contact.

g. He was given specific and detailed instructions that he is to report without fail upon departure from each country except in the places in which he expects to stay more than


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SECRET

a few days. These reports are to be detailed and to cover contacts and information gained. He was not to make reports of any kind to any person or U.S. government agency except CIA and then through agreed-upon channels only.

NOTE: It was agreed that Wiley will send these reports by mail to his wife in New York City who will, in turn, send them by mail to the writer's Washington address. In the event of urgent matters, he is to cable his wife as a newspaperman would and she, in turn, is to call the information in as soon as possible. Wiley has agreed to this and has worked out the necessary details with his wife who will technically be the "office" of "World News Analysis."

"3. Chief, SRS made suggestions as follows relative to particular targets of interest:

a. Chicom activities which are reflected in the civil rights movement in the United States.

b. A study could be made of why universities and colleges in South America are safe haven for communist

- 50 -

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

and radical activities
and apparently cannot be
touched by police. Chief,
SRS felt that this had
possibilities of a serious
article.

4. Writer obtained from Wiley a rough
   itinerary of his tour through South
   America. Hotels are not included
   but apparently Wiley's wife will
   have some of these forwarded to
   her by Wiley as moves from country to
   country. List follows:

Bolivia - to August 6

Ecuador - 2 or 3 days

Peru - to August 15

Bolivia - to August 20

Chile - 3 or 4 days

Argentina - to August 27

Uruguay - day or 2

Paraguay - to September 1

Brazil - 2 weeks

Venezuela - 2 or 3 days

Home - September 17

Wiley wrote reports from Lima on 10 and 13 August
1965; Buenos Aires received circa 2 September 1965;
Asuncion on 31 August 1965; and Brasilia, on 8 September
1965.

A draft of some of the information was prepared
on 15 September 1965.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

The file contains handwritten notes of interviews with Wiley, dated 5 and 9 March 1966; 3, 7, 14, 17 and 27 February 1966; and a copy of an article from the "National Review," dated 5 October 1965, by Robert Peter, captioned, "Communist Priests in South America."

Wiley prepared a fairly extensive report circa late captioned "Brazilian Intelligence, Recife," but which also has subheading of: Lino J. Rocha; Arturo Salazar Larrian; Irving Lee Sanders; Eleen Proud; Deak Rusk in Uruguay; Chicoms in Santiago, Chile; Peruvian Killed Righting for the Viet Cong; Guido A. Dias; A.U.D. Police Training; Return to Venezuela; Chinese Espionage in Argentina; Jose Roberta W. Penteado; and Dan Caswell. Circa the same time, Wiley prepared a report captioned, "Rolanda Garcia, Argentina," with subheadings of: Argentine Intelligence, Indonesian Embassy in Argentina; RIS in Rio; Jose A. Vega; Robert Prichard, Ruy Alencar; and Illegal Passports in Manus, Brazil.

A sterilized version of all the foregoing was prepared in SRS and passed to Jerry Mullane, WH/SO, on 27. December 1965 by Morse Allen.

Wiley had also given reports on: Chicoms in Chile; Barrientos Killed in Vietnam; Secret Talks Among Military; Lack of Soviet Response to Increased Chicom Propaganda; and Local Stringers for U.S. Publications Connected with Commies.

It was possible Wiley would prepare reports on: Action Popular; White Russian Refugees in Brazil, Russian Repartiates from South America; and Chicom Spy Suspects in Argentina.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# OTHER ACTIVITY, 1965-1974

There are handwritten notes of conversations with Wiley dated 7, 14, 18, 19 and 24 May 1965. The gist is that Wiley was apparently planning a trip to the mid west and then later to Algiers in North Africa. During the 19 May 1965 conversation between Morse Allen and Wiley, "Allen talked to Charles re Miss M's (Mendoza's) comments that Charles had not complied with instructions re vouchers. He (Wiley) claimed misunderstanding and that he could not accurately furnish desired info on vouchers she presently held. Allen told Chrles to use his memory and any notes he had and to fill in desired info per the written instructions given him by Miss M. (Ethel Mendoza). He said he would do so. Allen then told him to explicitle follow written instructions from Miss M. (Ethel Mendoza) or vouchers could not be accepted.......Charles was also reminded of reports due which he should get out prior to leaving on his speaking tour. He agreed." Apparently, the trip was to start on 23 May lasting until 1 June 1965 and the Young Americans for Freedom were picking up all expenses. Wiley was going to Cleveland, Milwaukee, Chicago and Minneapolis.

There are notes of conversation with Wiley dated 2, 7, 10, 15, 17, 22, 25, 28 June; 2, 6, 9, July and 27 July 1965. Apparently Wiley was having trouble with his back at this time and could not sit down and bend for typing. He was given the name of Dr. David S. Baldwin, 20 East 68th St., N.W., to contact. Regarding his travels, Wiley was told he would have to submit detailed reports of contacts to show what he is doing, etc. Apparently, the mid-West speaking tour was partially geared to gather funds for Algerian trip.

There is a note in the file, to wit:

"For Wiley

"Why not get the American Legion magazine to publish an Article 'Chaos in our Colleges' with a hard attack on the weak knee college and university advisers that permit violence, disruptions, waste of college and tax payers money, phoney students what about the decent students who want to study, etc."

This note was apparently written by Morse Allen.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

A 2 July 1965 handwritten note apparently prepared for a briefing of Wiley states partially, "Turn over any assts to 'B' (FBI) they want cooperate."

In July 1965, Mendoza received information from Wiley concerning his contacts with the American Security Council (ASC) and a mid-West speaking trip during the period 24 May to 1 June 1965. The latter trip, according to Wiley, was paid for by the Young Americans for Freedom. Regarding his contacts with the American Security Council, Wiley advised:

"My contact with ASC goes back to the middle 1950's when I first met John Fisher. At that time he was setting up the organization based on Harry Jung's files. Before it was named ASC, the org. was the Mid-American Research Library, and, later, Fidelifax. (Perhaps vise versa).

"Over the years I've been in touch with ASC frequently. In addition to Fisher, I know Jack Ison and Bill Lambie both former FBI men who worked on the subversive desk in New York (and elsewhere?). Ison left ASC in 1962 to join the Hoover Co., Canton, Ohio. My last information is that he was in their White Plains, N.Y. office. Another man in the Chicago office whom I met was D. Alspaugh, a research specialist. I have no knowledge of his background.

"In the Washington Office, I know Lee Pennington a friend for years before he joined ASC. While he was in Washington, I also knew Frank Johnson (a former ONI man?). I believe he is presently in Europe.

"My first contact with Dewitt Copp was in the fall of 1964. (NOTE: During my conversation with Copp he told me that the Chinese Air Force U-2 Flights were tied in with CIA). I spoke to him about my trip to Asia because of his having been in the area and to obtain outlets for material. Copp was in close touch with the Chinese Embassy, and I think it was Frank Toa who

RECEIVED FROM
SEP 30 1975
CIA

- 54 -
  SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 42


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

suggested I see him. Copp offered to take taped material
from me. My only other contact was a phone talk with him
in March 1965.

"While in Taiwan I was told by Col. Caithness
of the U.S.M.A.A.G. office that Copp had directly
attributed information to another MAAG officer who
had briefed him. When the story was printed (by North
American Newspaper Alliance?), the officer was in trouble.
Caithness indicated that he thought it was an honest
breakdown in communication between the officer and Copp
and that it was not deliberate. During my March phone
conversation with Copp I told him about Caithness'
disclosure to me (he had agreed that I tell Copp about
the situation). Copp seemed quite surprised.

"On March 16 I had dinner with John Lewis in New
York. Lewis is handling radio programs for ASC (out of
the Washington office). He also produces shows for NBC
radio (including a farm program). I've also had several
phone conversations with Lewis in Washington.

On 29 December 1965, Wiley called Morse Allen, gave
information concerning a forthcoming Esquire article on
espionage; and brought up the idea of moving to Washington.
Apparently Allen arranged to have Wiley call Cecil Tighe,
SRS, the following Monday and for Tighe to advise Wiley
to come to Washington in the near future to discuss the
matter with Tighe and Gaynor. Apparently, Allen was
removing himself from contact with Wiley at about this
time.

Apparently on 14 January 1966 Gaynor and Tighe met
with Wiley discussing his possible move to Washington,
his lecture tour and use of vouchers for travel expenses.
A notation dated only 1966 states to the effect that
Wiley's company, World News Analysis, is known on the
"Hill" because of the relationship between Filipello
(sic) and Congressman Daddario. "Numerous persons know
Wiley is CIA, other than perhaps a half-dozen of his own
friends. These include Eugene Lyons, Jay Kennedy, Elsa
Bernaut, Hede Massing, etc. (Note: Mccord is not aware
of the first two names above, and this possibly would
have some bearing on any assignment McCord may have been
considering.)"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

A handbill dated 6 January 1966 reflects Wiley was to be a speaker at a "Pro-Vietnam Teach-In" sponsored by the Young Americans for Freedom and the Princeton Conservative Club. Wiley is characterized as a free lance journalist, and an authority on International Communism who covered wars in Katanga, New Guinea, Laos, Vietnam, Algeria and Angola.

In early 1966, Wiley provided adverse information on Fred Coldren, Executive Director, International Federation for Freedom, Inc.

In early 1966, Wiley prepared reports concerning Daniel Davidson, special assistant to William Bundy and Steve Tyler, a free lance writer who in 1957 had attended the World Youth Festival in Moscow.

In early 1966, Wiley prepared reports concerning Vladimir G. and Emma Treml; Dr. and Mrs. Ivan D. London, Robin Moore; and Peter Korn. An additional report concerning Treml was prepared in February 1966.

In February 1965, Wiley prepared a report concerning Christopher Emmet, William Pawley, William T. McConarty, Mr. (FNU) Aistrop, Mr. (FNU) Eng, and Jay Kennedy.

In February 1966, Wiley prepared a report concerning Gene Farmer, Sr., Editor, Life Magazine whom Wiley met while discussing an article on Soviet spies.

There are handwritten notes of contacts with Wiley on 19 and 21 April 1966 mainly concerning articles about CIA which appeared in the May 1966 issue of "Esquire." Wiley did not know the authors. After apparent approval by the Director of Security, Wiley was authorized to contact one (Fnu) Erickson of "Esquire" to determine the identity of the authors.

There are notes of a verbal report by Wiley dated 27 April 1966 concerning Alex Roark.

In March 1966, Wiley prepared a report captioned, "Rumours of John and Robert Kennedy Affairs" apparently based on information from Nancy Czarnecki with whom Wiley apparently had just had contact. She is from Los Angeles, California.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECRET

In April 1966, Wiley prepared a report concerning George Freyman of Bellingham, Washington; and concurrently a report captioned, "Tourists Going to the USSR and Iron Curtain in Summer of 1966," specifically mentioning Stephen Talbott and Richard Bocklet.

In April 1966, Wiley prepared a report concerning Geoffrey Aldridge, USAF, Information Office of the Alaskan Air Command, Elmendort Air Force Base; and Lt. General Raymond J. Reeves, Commander-in-Chief, Alaska, who Wiley had apparently met in the area of Kotzebue on 8 April 1966.

Circa 6 June 1966, Wiley prepared two reports concerning John Riley, member of the Veterans of OSS.

On 28 July 1966, Wiley submitted a short report on Camera Press Pix, a British corporation engaged in world wide distribution of photos taken of the Vietnam war in and around Hanoi.

A report concerning Col. Esteban Venture Nova, dated 5 August 1966 was forwarded. Nova supplied certain information about Trujillo and Herb Romerstein, an HCUA investigation, sat in on the interview.

Wiley, on 2 September 1966, submitted information about the Queens Chapter (Long Island, New York) Women Strike for Peace.

On 21 October 1966, Wiley submitted a report concerning Michael Struenlins (Streulens) based on information he had received from John Lewis, American Security Council, Washington, D. C. on 22 September 1966. Concurrently, Wiley submitted a report on Ray McConnon as received from Herb Romerstein.

On 5 August 1966, Wiley prepared a report dealing with a potential trip to South Africa extended by Ghemus J. J. Geldenhuys, Public Affairs Officer, Information Service of South Africa, N. Y. Wiley again submitted a report on this topic on 21 October 1966.

RECEIVED FROM

SEP 1975

CIA

- 57 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

On 2 November 1966, Wiley submitted a report on Edward Scannel Butler who was in New York on 26 October 1966 to review a documentary film he had produced about Castro. Apparently Butler had a radio debate with Lee Harvey Oswald just prior to President Kennedy's assassination.

In late 1966 or early 1967, Wiley submitted a number of public brochures distributed attendant to the production of the films, "Troublemakers," "Mass," etc.

In early 1967, Wiley prepared a report concerning Vladimir G. and Emma Treml based on a personal letter; and concurrently a report on Dr. and Mrs. Ivan D. London.

Circa November 1966, Wiley prepared a report concerning a recent trip to Chicago and Milwaukee indicating some individuals he contacted. Wiley captioned the report, "Attempts to Stop Recruiting on College Campuses, (II)."

In late 1966, Wiley prepared a report on information he received from Lyle Munson on 30 November 1966 concerning a former CIA man (William Cornielson) connected with Dow Chemicals Company.

Sometime before 2 December 1966, Wiley prepared a report which he captioned, "Attempts to Stop Recruiting on College Campuses." Wiley leads off the report with the statement, "Under the cover of investigating a leftist campaign to drive U. S. Government spokesmen and recruiters for government agencies from the colleges, I talked over the situation with those listed below, the following report is based on the combined thinking of all. (Those interviewed: former Rep. Donald Bruce, Don Appel of HCUA, Bill Mavrye of Senate Internal Security Sub Committee, a number of Young Americans for Freedom leaders, Paul Brehhah of the New York City Police, Peter McEleney of the New York State Police, Ruth Matthews, Herbert Larson of the N.Y.C. FBI Office, Herbert Romerstein and Henry Durkin." Attendant to this report, Wiley submitted a report captioned, "Primary Conclusions Re: Investigation of Anti-Recruiting Drive on College Campuses."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

Arlington House Publishers was the subject of a
report submitted during January 1967. The report dis-
cusses the factional fight to control the publishing
company.

In March 1967, Wiley prepared a report which he
captioned, "D.C. Reaction to Exposure of CIA Cover
Operations." It would appear that the majority of the
information came from Nick Nonnenmacher, administrative
assistant to Rep. Henry C. Shadeburg,

Circa March 1967, Wiley forwarded three brochures
distributed by the Canadian Loyalist Movement which were
mailed to Wiley (?) by F.C. Pilkington, North Vancouver,
B.C., Canada.

An undated report, captioned, "Edward (Ted) Scott"
is based presumably on information provided to Wiley by
Malcolm (Mac) Johnson, news manager, NBC-TV, New York
City. Scott was then an NBC stringer in Cairo, Egypt.

An advertisement in Human Events, 19 August 1967, .
identifios Wilcy as the Executive Director, National
Committee for Responsible Patriotism, 500 Fifth Avenue,
.., .., 10036. This group had planned a series of
parades throughout the country on October 21-22 1967,
mobilizing support for U.S. soldiers in Vietnam and
respect for law and order. Wiley's participation with
this group was the topic of an article appearing in the
20 August 1967 edition of The Worker, captioned,
"The Elusive Charles Wiley," rehashing some of the
prior material published about Wiley's background.

At least two magazine articles written by Wiley
were introduced into the "Congressional Record." One
on 22 June 1966 by Senator Peter H. Dominick (also
previously submitted by Senator Joseph M. Montoya)
and another on 27 April 1965 by Representative E. Brad-
ford Morse.

In December 1970, Wiley prepared a report concerning
David Braum of the Vietnam Veterans Against the War.

In early January 1972, Wiley submitted a program
captioned "Friendship Program for Foreign Military Per-
sonnel Stationed in the United States," which in essence


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

would be a U.S.O. for foreign military personnel stationed in the U.S. Wiley contended it would build up good will and friendship. Wiley was told we have no interest in such a project.

The fall 1972 "Arlington House Publishers" contained an article by Intelligence Source edited by Charles Wiley, as to why Source a charter member of the Americam Communist Party, joined the Party and then left to fight Communism. From 1970-72, Wiley, at the request of SRS, monitored Source book to make sure any operations in which Source might have been involved were not exposed.

Intelligence Source a former KGB officer who defected in , has been and continues to be of Agency interest. For some time, Source had expressed a personal desire to author a factual book on the KGB based on his per- sonal knowledge and observations. The draft of a proposed manuscript was prepared, and Source requested assistance in obtaining an editorial review and an introduction to persons in the publishing business who might be interested in publishing a factual type book on the KGB.

Wiley was introduced to Source as an individual who could give editorial assistance and had certain contante in the publishing business. During July August 1972, Wiley met Source on three occasions. There was a degree of incompatibility of temperaments, in addition to a dif- ference of opinion concerning general content, format and tenor of the proposed manuscript, and at the request of Source: any further involvement of Wiley with regard to the proposed manuscript was terminated.

Circa September 1973, Wiley prepared a report which he captioned, "Personnel on Staff of Soviet Exhibition at EXPO, Montreal, Canada July 1973," wherein he indicated he attended EXPO on 14 July 1973. He also provided a photo- graph of an individual believed Russian, he thought of interest. Vasaly directed the report of photos to John Dempsey, C/RB and Bruce Solie. The latter said he was unable to do anything with the photos at the time and directed the material back to Vasaly for the Wiley file.

On 6 November 1973, a report was received from Wiley con- cerning one Pamela Spates, who indicated to Wiley she had been active in SDS and later the Weathermen.

VIETNAM TRIP - 1967-68

ROM

On 4 December 1967, Wiley reported that he had received SEPan) dicial invitation to visit Vietnam through

CIA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

the Foreign Ministry of that country. The Vietnamese
Government will pay all his transportation and living
costs while on the trip and the invitation resulted from
urgings by Nguyen Quoc Ten, press officer of the
Vietnamese mission to the U.N. in New York City. Wiley
was certain that his reputation as a friend of the Vietna-
mese triggered the invitation.

Approval was given him to make the trip; however,
his request to extend the trip through other places
in the Far East and Europe was turned down.

On 18 December 1967, Cecil Tighe(SRS) reported in
the memo to the Chief, SRS, that Wiley briefed him on the
forthcoming trip on 15 December 1967. Wiley was told
to stay out of the front lines and take precautions not
to involve himself in any situation that might jeopardize
his safety. Ralph True (Chief/SAD, OS) accompanied Tighe
to the meeting and True presented a requirement to Wiley
to which he acceded. Apparently True's presence at the
meeting had the approval of the Chief, SRS. Wiley
agreed to cooperate whole-heartedly with True. For the
record, Wiley was loaned a two-suit suitcase, "medication
in the form of tablets," and was instructed to purchase
a Leica camera case and sufficient color film. There is
no explanation in the file concerning the requirement
levied by True.

Wiley submitted a report concerning a debriefing
concerning his Vietnam trip.

"During a debriefing session in Washington, D.C.
30 April 1968 (by Bob Long?), I was rather surprised
by the lack of interest in my findings. The interviewer
asked almost no questions and didn't take notes. In
talking to someone who has a great many sources of
information available, I had little way of knowing what
might be of interest to him. On several occasions during
the interview I specifically asked if there were any
particular information that he wanted. There was no
response."

"I was in Vietnam for over a month - through the
Tet "truce" offensive - as a guest of that country's
government. I had private discussions with President
Thieu, Vice President Ky, Some of these were very
frank. All were long (over two hours each with Thieu
and KY) and I was treated as a friend. In addition,
I saw many top U.S. leaders - including General Westmore-
landmand representatives of other nations (the chinese

![date]

![CIA logo]

- 61 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

ambassador, the commander of all Thai troops in Vietnam, etc.). In nearly all cases I either knew them previously or reached these men through personal introductions from mutual friends. At no point in the debriefing was I asked whom I had contacted and there was no interest when I volunteered the information.

"The fact that I have an almost open door to the office of the Vietnamese ambassador in Washington and their United Nations Mission also met with no response. I am in a position to get their thinking on almost any subject and am also somewhat influential."

On the transmittal slip to the C/SRS, Tighe noted, "too bad Wiley went on about domestic political matters at the debriefing instead of concentrating on Vietnam."


SEP 30 1975

CIA

ROM

NW 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 50

- 62 -

SECRETI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# SECRET

EUROPEAN TRIP, 1970

Wiley, who claims that the basic reason for the trip was an invitation from the German Ministry of Defense, visited West Germany, England, Italy, France, Belgium, The Netherlands and Yugoslavia. During the German sojourn he visited the German Army, Navy and Air Force installations. He was told prior to departure that CIA had no tasks for him to perform. The results of Wiley's trip appeared in the American Legion magazine for March 1971. Financial and other records fail to reflect any approval of and payment for Wiley for this trip.

Circa August 1970, Wiley prepared a report on one Benigno Naval from the Philippines, near Manila. Apparently, Wiley met Naval "enroute to the Bonn Airport." This information was formalized into a report on 25 September 1970 and sent to C/ID/1 with the intention it be provided to FE Division.

FROM

SEP 10 1975

CIA

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 51

-63-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# SECRET'

: WORLD FESTIVAL, EAST BERLIN, 1973

In 1973, the Communists sponsored another WYF, this time held in East Berlin. Sometime prior to the event, Wiley brought up the question of our possible interest (SRS or other Agency components) and his availability and capability to be helpful finding appropriate delegates, funding, and providing cover. Despite being shunted off such an activity, he did apparently assist a young woman acquaintance, Third Agency Source to travel as one of the American delegates. He considered her his protegee and claimed to have given her training and counsel and also to have directed her to the FBI. Source ostensibly a member of the leftist group of American delegates, observed, took photos, and went on to the USSR with the group. She allegedly made her information and photos available to the FBI in debriefings and reports after her return.

Circa 14 August 1973, Wiley submitted a list of attendees at the 1973 Berlin Youth Festival. When Louis Vasaly brought the list to the attention of John P. Dempsey, Chief, Research Branch, with the suggestion of providing the list to CAS and "Ober's shop," Dempsey indicated the latter.

![image]

-64-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# INVOLVEMENT IN CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITIES

On 28 October 1960, Wiley prepared reports on Michael M. Moonry and Alex Rorke, the latter of which had been arrested in Cuba.

Wiley submitted an undated report captioned, "Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (Cuban Student Directorate)," particularly concerning Lesmes Ruiz, Jr., of the Revolutionary Student Directorate (DRE).

A Wiley report captioned, "Contact with the Cuban Revolutionary Student Directorate" is undated, but reflects Wiley's first contact with the DRE.

Wiley informed Morse Allen on 19 December 1961 that an FBI approached him and asked him to "nose around" about the people coming off the island (Cuba) or to get one of his boys to do it. Wiley further advised that the agent who made the request was Third Agency Employee of the New York Office (FBI) who wanted to attend a meeting of the P.I. which, according to Wiley, is a small anti-Castro Cuban group.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

SECRET

On 27 December 1962, Wiley reported of Ethel
Mendoza of SRS, his then case officer, that he, Wiley,
believed a trip to Miami, Fla, in the near future could
be very profitable from both the straight reporting
aspect, and through his thus being able to re-establish
contact with several Cubans with whom he is acquainted.
His most important contact is with Manuel Artime, one
of the leaders of the Cuban invasion force, who has just
been released by Castro. Miss Mendoza further noted
that Wiley is also acquainted with several other Cubans
of some importance, one of these being a member of the
"Alpha 66" group which ran several small operations
against Cuba during 1962.

From 31 January through 10 February 1963, Wiley
was in Miami, Fla., contacting Cuban exiles and exile
organizations. His main target was Manuel Artime and
his associates, with secondary target, the Cuban
Student Directorate. He submitted a long and detailed
report of his trip. Some of the information was pub-
lished into finished memoranda.

A report dated circa February 1963 concerns
"Castro Raid on British Islands."

Circa February 1963, Wiley preprared a report on
U.S. citizens and Canadians in Cuba.

The file contains a copy of HN-1-30, dated 25 February
1963, announcing the Agency formation of a "Task Force
on Cuba" under the direction of James J. Hitchcock. Colonel
Edwards brought the matter to the attention of Robert
Bannerman with the comment, "This might be the place to
feed in reports from Morse Allen's source. Bannerman...........
advised Paul Gaynor and Allen, "When you have report already,
we can take this up with Hitchcock."

On 12 April 1963, SRS prepared two final reports
based Wiley's information concerning J.M. Hernandez, aka:
"Manolin;" and the Comite Latino Americano de Informacion
(Latin American Information Center).

On 5 June 1963, Wiley prepared a report on "Cuban
Exiles and Associates," specifically mentioning Paul
Bethel, Manuel Ray, Manuel Artime and Alex Rorke.

--66-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

SECRET

On 8 August 1963, Wiley verbally reported information
he had received regarding Cuban activities.

On 11 September 1963, a report was prepared in SRS
on the basis of a phone call to Wiley, concerning Nira
Hardon and "Artime."

An undated report prepared by Wiley (including con-
versations with Enrique Abascal in late September 1963)
concerned recent information on Cuban exile activity
from New York sources.

On 4 October 1963, Wiley prepared a report concerning
the Revoluntionary Student Directorate leadership. He
indicated he thought very highly of this organization.

On 15 September 1963, Wiley prepared a report
which he captioned, "Details of Town Hall Rally and Cuban
Planning for It" which concerned Cuban exile activity
to be directed against the rally of leftist American
visitors to Cuba." Wiley also indicated he was involved
as an advisor to the Cuban exiles regarding his opinion
as to American reaction to specific activities, the scope
of press coverage, their rights in the hall, etc.

Under the date of 9 October 1963, SRS prepared a
7 page formal report based on Wiley's above-mentioned
Cuban reports which was captioned, "Information Regarding
DRE and Other Cubans New York City." This report was
given to WH Division on 11 October 1963.

Sometime after 10 November 1963, Wiley submitted a
list of his contacts in New York City during the weeks
of 28 October and 4 November 1963.

Sometime in very late 1963, Wiley prepared a report
containing information on Lee Harvey Oswald which he
received from Enrique Abascal, wherein Abascal alleged
he met Oswald in New York "last winter in Greenwich
Village." Wiley stated, "I urged Abascal to go to the
FBI with the information and offered to arrange a meeting.
He promised to tell them the story, and made contact
through an agency (O'Brien) whom he knew because of past
activities." Abascal also provided information on Cuban
exile matters.

-67-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SECRETI

On 26 December 1963, Wiley prepared a report on general Cuban matters based on information he received from Enrique Abascal. This matter was given to WH Division on 3 January 1964 by Morse Allen.

Sometime before 21 January 1964, Wiley prepared a list of his contacts for the period 9 December 1963 to the end of 1963.

Circa 30 September 1964, Wiley provided verbal information concerning Miss Manuela Fogel which was formalized into a report by Morse Allen on 11 January 1965.

The file contains notes of a conversation dated 7 October 1964. Apparently on the basis of this conversation, Morse Allen prepared a formal report which he captioned:

"Cuban Information, Source - Enrique via Wiley," which nertained to Soviet missile and submarine activity in Cuba. This report was brought to the attention of the Director of Security with the recommendation that a sterilized version be brought to the attention of Jerry Mullane, WH Div/Security OrCIA Cover Employeef WH Div. On 9 October 1964, the material was passed to Bruce Cheever (DD/P) on the instructions of Howard Osborn.

On 30 April 1966, Wiley prepared a report on Oswaldo F. Hernandez-Campos, a veteran of the Bay of Pigs.

OVERSEAS TRAVEL

Wiley's financial records, i.e., travel vouchers, Federal Income tax forms and cover organization accountings, reflect the following travel:

From 17 June to 25 August 1959, Wiley went to France, Spain, Algeria, Tunisia, Italy, Yugoslavia, Greece, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Israel, Cyprus, Turkey,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SECRETI

Germany, Vienna, Austria (7th World Youth Festival),
USSR, Poland East Germany, West Germany and England.

SRS underwrote $556.70 of transporation costs to
be offset by earnings, if sufficient. The amount was
advanced on 16 June 1959. There are no other vouchers
in the 1959 travel and salary vouchers file concerning
this trip.

Apparently between 6 June and 29 June 1960, Wiley
visited Cuba, Jamaica, Dominican Republic and Puerto
Rico. The 1960 Federal income tax return shows two
trips to the Caribbean; however, no dates are shown.
One of 21 days to the areas mentioned above. The
cover organization accounting for the period December
1959 to June 1960 shows a 21 day overseas trip - airfare:
$232.18 and 21 days per diem.

Between 23 July and 4 August 1960, Wiley went to
Cuba. The 1960 Federal income tax return noted above
shows one trip of 9 days to Cuba. The July 1960-June
1961 cover fund accounting shows a Cuba trip expense
of $500.00 and this expense was offset against cover
fund income. There were no other vouchers available
concerning this trip. It is felt that this trip was
approved by the Agency. A news account, dated 4 August
1960, reflects that Charles Wiley was expelled by the
Cubans on that date after 8 days in prison without
charges.

From April through July 1961, Wiley traveled through
Africa and Europe. The 1961 Federal income tax return
reflects a trip of 73 days. The July 1960 through June
1961 cover accounting shows expenses of 73 days per diem
$1,460.00 less a home office (CIA) advance of $147.29 -
$1,312.71 as offset against income. A travel voucher
for April-July 1961 shows: Per diem $1215.29. Transpor-
tation $1324.06, other $907.65 for a total of $3497.00.
From this was subtracted an advance of $1900.00 by SRS
on 13 April 1961. An itinerary for Africa and Europe for
April to July 1961 shows: Lisbon, Tangier, Dakar, Conakry,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

SECRET!

Abidjan, Accra, Doula, Leopoldville, Luanda, Brazzaville,
Elizabethville, Northern Rhodesia, Johannesburg, Salisbury,
Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar, Kenya, Addis Ababa, Athens,
Bulgaria, Rumania, Budapest, Prague, Berlin, London and
Zurich.

15 May - 22 August 1962 - the 1962 Federal income
tax return reflects a 93 day trip to Australia, S.E. and
Mid-East, Asia, USSR and Europe. An April 1962 memorandum
reflects that the Director of Security approved $3000
toward this planned trip. The cover accounting for
July 1961-June 1962 shows a deficit on a trip to Asia
of $4,538.38 minur $3,000.00 ($1,538.38). The file
contains a billing from the Cosmos Travel Bureau, Inc.
for $2,521.54 and receipts for same paid in April and
May 1962. The file contains a copy of a Form 281 Request
for Advance of $3000.00, dated 1 May 1962. A travel
voucher form 22 covering May-August 1962 shows $4,544.38
in expenses for the trip. The itinerary is as follows:
Auckland, Melbourne, Canberra, Syndey, Brisbane, Sydney,
Djakarta, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok, Saigon, Phnom
Penh, Vientiane, Rangoon, Calcutta, Katmandu, New Delhi,
Agra, Srinagar, Rawalpindi, Feshawar, Kabul, USSR (11-23 July)
Helsinki, (July - August) Stockholm, Oslo, Copenhagen,
Berlin, Frankfurt, Lugano, London and New York City.

The 1964 Federal Income tax return reflects a 31 day
trip to Asia from 15 November - 31 December 1964. On 27
October 1964, in a memo to Chief/SRS, Morse Allen stated
that the CHINAT Govt. has offered C. Wiley a two week,
all expense paid, round trip to Taiwan. He recommended
approval, plus "I also recommend that Wiley be given some
money in the amount of $500 to $1000 to permit him to
take advantage of the CHINAT trip and make a 'free lance'
trip through the Far East (Tokyo, Hong Kong, Indonesia,
Thailand, Vietnam, Malaysia) and return via Manila, P.I."
A note in file indicates that $1000 was ok'd by the
Director of Security on 30 October 1964. $1000 was advanced
Wiley on 10 November 1964. The trip was made in November
and December 1964. A travel allowance concerning the trip
shows: Expenses of $962.78 expended out of $1000 advanced.
Itinerary as of 15 November was Alaska, Tokyo, Hiroshima,
Nagasaki, Tokyo, Seoul, Taiwan (26 Nov-11 Dec) Hong Kong,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

SECRET

Macao, Cambodia, Manila, Singapore, Kuching, Brunei,
Singapore, Vietnam, Brussels, Amsterdam, London and New
York City.

The 1965 Federal income tax return shows a 49 day
trip to South America from 31 July to 17 September 1965.
Originally an extended trip had been approved to include
the 9th World Youth Festival as planned for Algiers.
The World Youth Festival was cancelled, but a trip to
cover Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay,
Paraguay, Brazil and Venezuela remained. Expenses
were to be covered by the cover fund. In a memo con-
cerning his proposed South American trip for July 1965,
Wiley advised that "The cover fund is sufficient to pay
all expenses, and the income from the trip should be
enough to return the money and show a profit (perhaps
a very good one)." A travel voucher shows expenses
for the trip 31 July 1965 to 17 September 1965 of
$2234.72. The itinerary: New York City, Miami, Panama,
Bogota, Quito, Lima, Cusco, La Paz, Santiago, Cordoba,
Buenos Aires, Asuncion, Iguape, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,
Brasilia, Rio de Janeiro, Reclife, Belem, Manaus, Caracas,
New York City. The cover accounting for 1965 shows the
South American trip expense of $2234.72 was offset against
income and there is no record of an advance.

No foreign travel is reflected in the Federal Income
Tax Returns or files for 1966 or 1967.

The 1968 Federal income tax return reflects a 55 day
trip to Athens, Cairo, Indo-China, Manila, Taipei and
Seoul. An 18 December 1967 memo to Chief, SRS, from Cecil
C. Tighe related to his briefing Wiley regarding the
up-coming trip by Wiley to Vietnam and Laos, warning him
to exercise care and not expose himself unnecessarily to
danger.

An accounting of the expenses for the trip 16 January
to 9 March reflects that air transportation was supplied
by the Government of Vietnam. The itinerary shows: Athens,
Bangkok, Vientiane, Saigon, Hong Kong, Macao, Manila,
Taipei and Seoul. Total other expenses of $828.11 were
incurred and are reflected as an expense in the 1968 cover
accounting and offset against income.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

SECRET

Wiley's 1969 Federal income tax return reflects a 21 day trip to Germany, Belgium, and Luxemburg and claims transportation was furnished by the U.S. Armed Forces. A memo of a trip to Germany 20 January to 8 February 1969 indicates Wiley was covering airlift operation Reforger I. This trip was apparently as an invitee of the U.S. military which supplied most of the travel needs. No travel voucher was submitted to CIA but overseas trip expenses of $502.26 are charged as expenses in the 1969 cover fund accounting offset against income. The itinerary shows: Brussels, Germany and Luxemburg.

The 1970 Federal income tax return indicates a 2 month trip to Europe, primarily Germany, during July and August 1970. It says much of trip expense provided by the West German Government. Wiley did not make the usual claim for per diem expense in the Federal income tax return. In his cover accounting for 1970, Wiley shows an overseas trip expense of $664.74 to be offset against income. He indicates transportation from D.C. to Germany and return was provided by the German Air Force and that a three week tour of Cormen bases was covered by the German Defense Ministry. The Trip took place in July and August 1970 and besides Germany included: London, Paris, Rome, Brussels, The Hague, and Zagreb.

No foreign travel is reflected in the Federal Income tax return or office records for 1971.

Wiley's 1973 Federal income tax return shows a one month trip to Vietnam, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. Wiley's 1972 cover fund accounting reflects expenses of $497.36 for a Vietnam trip but in his income he shows an allowance of $475.00 made by the National Committee for Responsible Patriots (NCRP), for the trip. The expense listing attached reflects those expenses and claims roundtrip airfare and some other expenses were provided by others (possibly air transportation expenses were provided by some segment of the Vietnam Government). The itinerary shows: Hong Kong, Vietnam, and Taipei.

Whether Wiley had any foreign travel in 1973 is unknown since his 1973 Federal income tax return and cover fund accountings have not been received to date, 25 March 1974.

SEP 30 1975

CIA

-72-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# SECRET!

UTILIZATION, CONTROL AND CASE OFFICERS

On 9 January 1963, Morse Allen of SRS wrote the first memo spelling out Wiley's detailed use by the Agency. It is quoted in part as follows:

"UTILIZATION FROM 1957 TO DATE

"In the original plan, Mr. Wiley was to be used for special research work, special investigations, and in very general terms, as a penetration into right-wing groups and the right-wing literary field in New York City. He has conducted research on organizations of interest to SRS, carried out specialized assignments of a covert investigative nature on individuals of interest to this Staff, and gradually began to develop himself into a free lance writer and journalist. During this period, Mr. Wiley extended his field of contacts to include a great many persons and organizations in the right-wing and anti-Communist category, and thus was able to furnish us as required, information on activities and many individuals in this area. Under SRS guidance, he conducted harassment exercises against the Communist World Youth Festivals in Vienna (1959), and Helsinki (1962). In addition, he obtained considerable valuable information on individuals in attendance at the Festivals and the Communist tactics used in these Communist sponsored meetings.

"Further, during 1959-1962, Mr. Wiley made many trips in behalf of SRS, including a journalistic trip to Cuba where he served a jail sentence in Havana in an effort to obtain information of a matter of grave interest to this Agency. He has made many trips overseas; has visited most of Africa, the Near and Middle East, most of Europe, much of Asia, the Satellite countries and has been twice in the Soviet Union on our behalf. In addition to important information, photographs, etc., which he obtained for us, his stature as a writer-journalist-photographer has increased, which in turn has widened his circle of contacts. His last trip, which took him through

-73-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

SECRET

Southeast Asia, across the Soviet Union and ended at the Youth Festival in Helsinki this past summer, was highly productive, and it will be recalled that Mr. Wiley and his covert associates thoroughly disrupted the Communist Youth Festival. Information on the Soviet Union which he obtained while there has been given to SR Division in a series of debriefings.

"WORLD NEWS ANALYSIS

: Approximately three years ago, in an effort to provide Mr. Wiley with a more substantial mechanism for operations and to increase his journalistic reputation, it was decided that he would set up a news-gathering service based in New York City and secure, where possible, the services of writers or journalists who would feed him news stories from various points in the world. This would have the advantage of being a legitimate news-gathering service and at the same time possibly being later used as an information-gathering organization for intelligence purposes. Acting under instructions from SRS, Mr. Wiley set in motion the World News Analysis; opened a small office in Flushing, New York, had press credentials made and conducted business to a certain extent in the name of this organization.

CIA Covert Source

Details of this will not be covered in this report. Mr. Wiley still conducts certain business through this mechanism (WNA), but at the present, with the exception

CIA Covert Source

"CURRENT AND IMMEDIATE OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

"Mr. Wiley is currently being used more or less in line with the original idea of the project. His activities can be grouped as follows:

A. Conducts special inquiries as required by Chief, SRS.

B. Maintains close association with organizations of the right, the extreme right

-74-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

SECRET

and the numerous anti-Communist refugee
groups, mainly in New York City.

C. Maintains personal contact across the
board with the leaders and officers of
practically every known anti-Communist
group of significance in New York City
and many in other parts of the United
States. He knows on a personal basis
nearly all of the outstanding anti-
Communist writers, labor leaders, and
Civic leaders in New York City.

D. He has close working connections with,
and has written a great deal for, the
American Legion (using his own by-line).

E. He has a great number of connections in
Congress and is known personally to
probably all of the Congressmen and
staff of the House Committee on Un-Ameri-
can Activities and the Senators and Staff
of the Senate Internal Security Committee.
He maintains continuous liaison with the
FBI and State and City Police in New York.

F. He travels often, gives innumerable
lectures and talks to all types of organi-
zations who wish to use the services of a
highly professional and talented anti-
Communist speaker.

G. While not engaging in political activity
of any type on the local scene, Mr. Wiley
from time to time engages in the formation
of committees for 'single-shot' organizations
aimed at harassment of the Soviets or local
Communists, particularly in New York City.
It was he who spearheaded the anti-
Khrushchev demonstrations in New York when
Khrushchev visited the United Nations in
1961.

"LONG-RANGE TARGETS

"Much thought has gone into the ultimate disposition
of Mr. Wiley and at present the basic thinking is as follows:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

SECRET

A. If Mr. Wiley, because of his talents and capacity as a writer-journalist and his considerable knowledge of Soviet activity throughout the world, is offered a highly remunerative job with a major publication, news service or radio chain, Mr. Wiley (ostensibly) will sever his connection with us and go on the payroll of the organization chosen and will retain our connection on a purely personal basis.

B. If Mr. Wiley does not find this situation attractive, he is to be considered for conversion to staff employee, where his considerable capabilities could be fully exploited.

"However, these ideas are not yet at the point of development and Mr. Wiley is to continue to operate under the current arrangement."

On 15 January 1963, Allen wrote a further description of Wiley's use to the Chief, Security Research Staff through the Deputy Chief, Security Research Staff as follows:

"1. Attached herewith is a summary and a status report on Charles William Wiley which was requested by Chief, SRS, several weeks ago. The report was prepared after numerous conferences with Mr. Wiley by Miss Finan, Miss Mendoza and Mr. Allen. The attachment referred to as a 'Contact List' was prepared upon our instructions by Mr. Wiley himself and no additions or corrections have been made. It is believed self-explanatory.

"2. For matter of record, we wish to again emphasize that certain items are omitted from the Contact List and omitted generally from the report itself for security reasons. These are as follows:

1) Because of Mr. Wiley's various activities, he has succeeded in effecting several penetrations into Communist Party organizations in New York City. Details and names are omitted in this category.

FROM
SEP 30 1975
CIA

-76-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

SECRETI

2) Mr. Wiley's contact with Earl Browder is not noted in the Contact List, for obvious reasons, although SRS ran Wiley against Earl Browder for several years, principally as a RECOVERY target. This contact is still being used, and, for the record, Browder apparently is fond of Wiley and enjoys his company.

3) In addition to the above, Mr. Wiley has conducted activities with cognizance of SRS which are omitted because of their sensitive nature. Very briefly, these activities can be summarized as follows:

a. Scouting anti-CIA attacks in the various media and organizations to which Wiley has access.

b. Stopping same insofar as possible (as demonstrated in American Legion activity).

c. Discovering and blocking anti-CIA attacks or attacks on Agency personnel 'on the Hill.'

d. Writing or helping write pro-CIA articles in the various media with which Wiley has contact.

"3. We have made no recommendation to the basic report, but it is the considered opinion of the writers of this report that Mr. Wiley's services are unique and outstanding and that he should be retained for the present in the same contractual way, with consideration strongly urged to effecting a method whereby his salary or reimbursement can be increased."

A hand written comment on the memo is as follows: "Concur in Retention - W. M. Knott (who was the then Deputy Chief, SRS).

RJM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

-77-

SECRETI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

The contact list is set out as follows:

CIA Covert Source - Long-time SRS consultant whom Mr. Wiley met through Mr. McCord. CIA. Covert Source has furnished an entree for Mr. Wiley to several individuals whom he otherwise could not have seen.

CIA Covert Source Former OSS agent and a current SRS source whom Mr. Wiley also met through Mr. McCord.

CIA Covert Source During World War II he worked under CIA Covert So. and in recent years Source has performed specific assignments for this office. Introduced by Mr. McCord to Mr. Wiley. CIA Covert knows Wiley as a fellow journalist.
Source

Donald Sweaney - Mr. Wiley became aware of our use of him when Mr. Wiley's articles on Communism were published in the organ of the American Legion.

Donald Ingles - Another cousin of Mr. Wiley.

Lee Femington - Mr. McCord used Mr. Fennington as a confidential source when the latter was a member of the Americanism Committee of the American Legion. In turn, Mr. Pennington acted as liaison for Mr. McCord in funding Mr. Wiley.

CIA Covert Source These SRS sources used on occasion were introduced to Mr. Wiley in connection with a particular assignment of his.

CIA Covert Source - Mr. Wiley met this source of Mr. McCord's in connection with his debriefing on his (Wiley's) Cuban "sojourn."

William Gardiner A long time friend of Mr. Wiley whose hobby is photography, and Mr. Wiley uses him in this capacity as the need arises.

George Hoyle A long time friend and Mr. Wiley's insurance agent."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

(Apparently the summary and status report and Contact
List to which Mr. Allen refers is the previous quoted memo
of 9 January.)

During February and March 1963, SRS representatives met
with Wiley for discussion of an objective to place a skilled
and controlled source in the newspaper community in Washington,
D. C. who would have normal, routine, and ready access to the
Washington writing and radio colony. The long range plan was
to have Wiley move to Washington, and begin extensive writing
and lecturing to establish his prestige, and to slowly cur-
tail his other activities except for keeping his "excellent
Cuban and anti-Castro connections." The basic plan was to be
forwarded to the Director of Security by the Chief, SRS, for
consideration. Tentative approval must have been received
inasmuch as on 26 March 1964, Morse Allen requested the
assistance of Eugene Lyons for information as to an assess-
ment of Wiley's work, and the best method for establishing
prestige for a writer. Wiley was not identified by name.

In the interim, on 30 March 1964, Eugene Lyons contacted
Morse Allen, confirmed Wiley's writing talent, and arranged
for an introduction of Wiley to Lee Wood (or Woods), General
Manager of Script (sic) Howard. Wiley contacted Wood through
Lyons and they arranged for a personal meeting on 3 April 1964.
The plan, however, fell through since Wiley never moved to
Washington.

The plan, as follows, was presented in an undated memo-
randum form for the Director of Security:

"During the week of February and on 7 and
8 March 1963, extensive discussions were held with
Wiley concerning matters which are set out in de-
tail following. Mr. Wiley is in agreement with
Chief/SRS and representatives of SRS that the pro-
posed plan which follows is the most sound, logical,
and secure method of obtaining the desired results:

"OBJECT - To place a skilled and controlled
source in some type of a position in Washington,
D. C., which will have normal, routine, and ready
access to the Washington writing and radio colony.

"PROBLEM - Source must have sufficient back-
ground and prestige to be accepted; he must have

FROM

CIA

-79-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# SECRETI

income adequate to be in Washington (ostensibly from his own efforts); he must have a valid reason for being in Washington; he must have high capacity to produce; he must have a strong security sense; and he must have unquestioned loyalty.

"PROPOSED SOLUTION:

"a. SOURCE - Source to be used is Wiley. Wiley fits in nearly every particular to the elements set out in the 'Problem' above.

"b. METHOD OF SOLUTION:

"1. Source will begin at once to write articles of importance, aiming at the placing of these articles in national magazines, particularly magazines of the type of Life, Look, Readers Digest, McCalls, Argosy, etc. Source has numerous valid ideas for these articles and already some interest has been shown in these writings by Editors of the aforementioned type magazines. Source will slowly divorce himself from his numerous activities in New York City, maintaining only strong interest in his Cuban connections. Source will need approximately three months to write these articles and to sell them. It is Source's intention that these articles carry his by-line, which is a basic element to building prestige necessary for Source's future activity. Source is convinced he can handle this successfully.

"Note: Heretofore Source has, under instruction, kept the use of his name to an absolute minimum for obvious reasons. This requirement will now be lifted.

"2. At the same time Source will prepare brochures for a lecture tour to be given by Source during the Fall and early Winter, basically on Cuba and Latin America. Already Source has drafted brochures and he will have professional guidance in this matter.

Note: Source is an excellent lecturer. He has appeared before public forums many times and

-80-

SECRET'


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

SECRETI

has a high capacity in this area. This lecture tour, details of which will be set out below, is considered of key importance to the basic problem.

"3. Starting on or about the first of July, Source will make an extensive tour of Central and South America as a free lance reporter/writer/photographer, using his credentials from the World News Analysis. Entree basically will be provided using numerous Cuban contacts Source has obtained throughout Latin and South American countries. This trip will take probably the most of July, August, and part of September and is regarded as essential for back up, for prestige, for area knowledge, and for lecture material."

"Note: Source is known to have excellent Cuban anti-Castro connections which will be sharpened for use on this tour. (Source has been in every area of the world except Latin and South America.)"

"c. LECTURE TOUR: On or about the middle of September Source will return to New York City and prepare for the aforementioned lecture tour. (It should be noted that there is no lecture activity during the Summer months.) After preparation, Source will proceed to make a lecture tour covering all parts of the United States and addressing all types of audiences. Source's lecture tour will be run through the sponsorship of the Babcock Agency of Virginia Beach, Virginia. This Agency, which handles among others the important members of the National Review Staff, will be handled on a direct commission basis taking a usual ten percent fee. In addition, through other organizations Source will arrange lectures on his own which is routine and which will not conflict in any way with the Babcock Agency interest. Source anticipates completing the lecture tour about the first of the year 1964, at which time he will return to New York City."

"Note: This lecture tour will serve a dual purpose. It will build up the stature of the

FROM

SEP 80.1975

CIA

-81-

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 69

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

Source (spreadhis name before the public), and it will give him the necessary opportunity to conduct the following business: As Source makes his lecture tour he will attempt, by direct contact and through already established channels, to determine whether or not he can set up for the basic plan (a) a daily column, (b) a newsletter, (c) a radio spot news broadcast. The lecture tour, of course, will place Source in given areas and it would be completely logical for him to talk to local editors and radio station owners and managers while in the area. He will be backed up by the fact that he is lecturing and that he is a writer because of the previously mentioned articles.

"d. Upon his return to New York City on or about the first of the year 1964, Source will then be able to make a definitive statement as to whether or not he can conduct on a continuing basis and on an economically sound basis (a) a daily column; (b) a weekly newsletter; or (c) a radio newscast bureau.

"Note: Source has evolved an idea of making short newscasts which he believes can be peddled on a spot basis to various local radio chains, perhaps weekly. This idea, which is novel, appears to have a great deal of merit.

"e. After Source and SRS staff have had a chance to analyze the total result, a decision will then be reached as to the feasibility of moving Source to Washington. If the results of the above set out plans indicate that Source can logically appear in Washington, he will then, for a period of about 30 to 60 days while operating either his column, newsletter or radio broadcast bureau, shuttle back and forth between New York and Washington obviously seeking news. He will let it be known to his friends in the newspaper and writing business that the pressure of his work is such that he will need some office space in Washington at which time, more or less on a temporary basis, he will secure in a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SECRET

downtown location a combination business office
and living quarters, possibly at some such place
as the 1028 Connecticut Avenue Building.

"f. After this test, Source will 'discover' that
he can best operate out of Washington and he will
then establish an office and purchase a house or
other accommodations and bring his family to Wash-
ington.

"g. At this point Source will be operating on
his own as a news gatherer. He will be established
as such and he will have access to the various
press conferences and other news making areas in
Washington and he will by necessity mingle with
the local newsmen and radio people.

"COMMENTS:

"The main question concerning the above plan was
whether or not this could be accomplished in a shorter
time guaranteeing soundness, logic, and security. Many
approaches were studied and for the reasons set out be-
low they were discarded as not workable or unsound. De-
tails follow:

"1. Do we have a cover organization in
Washington that would be usable in connection
with the set out plan?

As far as we can now determine, there
is no suitable cover organization in Washington
that would cover the movement of the Source into
Washington, explain his presence there, and give
him a required freedom of movement in the area of
interest. We have no totally controlled newspaper
property, news bureau, or radio bureau in Washing-
ton, nor do we have any organization where Source
could be planted without creating a questionable
situation.

"2. Could we establish a 'grant' which
would do as a cover for bringing Source into
Washington?

"A very careful study of this problem in-
dicates that this is probably not logical. A

![RECEI FROM]

SEP 30 1975

CIA

NW 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 71

-83-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SECRETI

grant for research would be difficult as Source is not what could be called a research type nor would he have freedom of movement, and he would not have a reasonable excuse for being in certain areas and asking certain questions of interest. If a cover is given, for instance for writing a book, it is believed that this cover would be limited and would preclude Source moving in certain areas of interest, i.e., if he were to write a book on logically talk on the subject, he could interview persons knowledgeable, visit the Hill and some of the press, but it seems doubtful to us that he could convert this into matters of specific interest to us.

"3. Could our Source obtain a position as full-time employee or perhaps stringer of a going organization such as a Washington news bureau or magazine of the type of 'Newsweek' or 'World Report'?

"If we would piace legitimarely or otherwise our Source in such a position, this might be very limiting. In other words, Source could be confined to desk work and have no access at all to the actual operations of the magazine or getting about Washington as a leg man and reporter. The chance also exists that if he were able to obtain such an assignment, because of his contacts he might be sent out of town immediately. Furthermore, Source does not necessarily have the background of taking a position as editor or similar type with any established news bureau or magazine. Furthermore, if through various Washington connections we were to approach an established magazine and ask for a 'roving' assignment of Source, it is most likely that the magazine editor or owner would turn down the idea automatically. Finally, in this connection, a possibility may exist that Source, himself, using his Cuban stories and entree, sell himself as a stringer to some Washington news bureau or magazine, but probably only working out of New York.

-84-

SECRETI

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 72

SEP 30 1975

CIA

![CIA logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

SECRETI

"4. Could Source obtain employment on a Congressional Committee on either side of the Hill which would give him access to the areas of interest?

"Source has exceptional connections on the Hill and it is believed that through these connections he might obtain some type of assignment on a temporary basis or perhaps on a regular basis. However, in the opinion of the SRS staff this is exceptionally hazardous and if it became known through some misfortune, it would be of enormous embarrassment to Agency officials. In addition, Source might well obtain employment with the Congressional Committee, but his work might be too limiting to permit him to move about and it might well preclude any opportunity he had of making contact with the local press. Furthermore, most Committee assignments, investigative or otherwise, generally follow a 9 to 5 routine on the Hill and free lancing and freedom of movement are not easily obtained in Congressional Committees. It is regarded as impossible to place Source on a Congressional Committee if the employing Senator or Congressman was to be informed even in a most nominal way of Source's mission.

"5. Can the basic plan be telescoped on a shorter basis?

"This is considered questionable by those who have worked in this area for some time. If we shorten the approach, we would obviously cut down on our Source's background and prestige, particularly in an area where stature is necessary. The articles using Source's by-line, if they are successful, would be very important and would serve as a basis for everything that would follow. The South American trip is needed and Source would have at the present time the best possible chance for success based on his Cuban contacts which are very strong at the present time. A possibility also exists on such a trip that Source might be fortunate enough to achieve an important newspaper scoop which, of course, would build prestige and quite conceivably place

RECE FROM
SEP 30 1975
CIA

-85-

SECRETI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

SECRETI

his name prominently in the public eye. The lecture tour, of course, is essential not only for prestige purposes, but to make the necessary survey to determine the best possible media for Source if and when he ultimately moves to Washington.

"The long range proposal set out above appears to be the most secure and most logical way into the target. If it is necessary to go after a shorter method or a more direct approach, every effort can be aimed at this. However, it is possible that a long range plan as set out above might be used successfully in combination with a shorter more direct plan unless the shorter plan would result in the blowing of the Source prematurely."

RECE ROM

-86-

SEP. 20 1975

CIA

SECRETI
NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 74


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

On 1 October 1964, Morse Allen wrote a memorandum for the record reporting an interview with Wiley as follows:

"On 30 September 1964, the writer talked with Wiley at the writer's apartment in Washington, D.C., for several hours. The conversation was general and part of it was devoted to the discussion of financial matters, routine operational problems, and comments primarily on the local New York scene.

"Of particular interest, however, in addition to the above, were the following:

"(a) Earl Browder - After discussing Wiley's connections with Browder, the writer directed that Wiley interview Browder as soon as possible and discuss with him the recent deaths of Togliatti, Thorez, Elizabeth Gurley Flynn and find out what significance, if any, Browder makes of these matters. SRS recently had information that Browder had given some information of intelligence value to an English writer and it was felt that it would be of interest to reopen Wiley's connections with Drowder. Wiley was asked to stress the Togliatti paper.

"(b) Malcolm X - Wiley had previously interviewed Maicolm X (Malcolm Little) before the former's recent trip to Egypt and Africa and the Middle East. The writer requested Wiley, at his earliest possible convenience, to reinterview Malcolm X, particularly stressing Malcolm X's views of individuals with whom he had talked and any personalities of information which could be of intelligence use. It should be noted that Wiley regards Malcolm X as probably the shrewdest of the Negro leaders and according to Wiley, Malcolm X talks freely to him because Wiley and Malcolm X have an understanding not to mince words or to be evasive when they are talking.

"(c) Communist Youth Festival, Algiers, July (?) 1965 -

It should be noted that Wiley has spearheaded anti-Communist attacks on Youth Festivals in Vienna and in Helsinki previously, has disrupted their programs, and

-87-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

SECRETI

has to a considerable extent interfered with their propaganda at these festivals. Because of this, Wiley is interested once again in divisive and disruptive efforts against the Communists in Algiers in 1965. This time Wiley states that it would be dangerous because of the attitude of the Moroccan Government. Wiley believes that it would be best to have a small team of three to six trained in- dividuals who would proceed to the Youth Festival at Algiers and who would be directed not at dis- ruption or propaganda, but would aim at intelligence gathering. Wiley himself stated that he would again volunteer to go to Algiers at this time, not ostensi- bly connected with the aforementioned group, and only as a free lance newspaperman. Wiley pointed out that undoubtedly he is not the top news authority in the United States on Communist Party Youth Festivals. Wiley states that he believes he can arrange financing from private organizations and individuals for the three to six individuals mentioned above and possibly enough for travel by himself although this may not be obtainable. Wilcy requests a study of this matrer and advice.

"(d) Bay of Pigs Book Review - Wiley stated that he cannot as yet explain why the National Review did not publish his Bay of Pigs review, but in fact paid him for it. He is convinced that the review was withheld because of some Agency influence. He submitted cor- respondence from Frank Meyer, one of the editors of the National Review in this connection.

"(e) The Kennedy Book - Wiley commented that his friend Dick Whalen, an outstanding young writer, has just com- pleted a book on either Joseph B. Kennedy or the Kennedy family for which Whalen received $100,000 in advance. Wiley states that he has helped Whalen write the book, giving him advice and assisting him editorially. Wiley states that there are two items of which he is extremely pleased of his work in connection with this book:

(1) He convinced Whalen to rewrite the chapter on the Bay of Pigs, focusing the blame from the CIA to John F. Kennedy, and

-88-

SECRET!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

(2) He had deleted from the book an entire section which was devoted to alleging that CIA was responsible for the assassination of Trujillo.

(3) Wiley added that the Kennedy book contained an index and just before the book was to go to the printers, a proof-reading of the index showed that there were numerous errors in it. The publishers, upon discovering this, asked Wiley to correct the index, making such annotations and corrections as necessary with highest priority. Wiley stated that it took him 36 hours of continuous work to complete and correct the index and for this effort he has sent the publishers a bill for $500.

"(f) Free China Weekly - Attached is a copy of the Free China Weekly, dated 6 September 1964. This publication is published for overseas distribution from Taiwan and is a propaganda sheet of the Chinese Nationalists. Wiley called attention to the article at the top of page 3 in which the Free China Weekly comments on the article written by Charles W. Wiley in the September issue of the American Legion Magazine concerning Tibet. Wiley indicates that is good publicity since the paper is sent all over the world."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

SECRET

In December 1964, SRS prepared a blind memorandum outlining the use of Wiley, to wit:

"Wiley has been a contract agent of SRS since 1959 and operates under a non-official cover of a one-man news agency in New York City. He is actually assisted clerically by his wife, who is witting."

"Wiley, 38 years of age, is a born and bred New Yorker who comes from a theatrical family. He came to our attention in 1955 when he was compiling an index of the Daily Worker on a grant from the Americanism Commission of American Legion. The grant was depleted before the index was completed; SRS arranged to finance same, and eventually obtained a copy of the index. From 1957-1959, Wiley was financed as a cleared source from both OS and CI Staff funds."

"Wiley's contract does not require renewal and can be terminated for cause or otherwise with a maximum of 90 days notice. SRS has no agreements with Wiley as to length of contract and he is not entitled to leave, retirement, or other benefits normally due an employee."

"Wiley is paid from OS funds in the amount of $10,500 base salary, plus a quarterly payment of $131.25 in lieu of retirement and hospitalization. He is paid his local travel expenses (which in the last fiscal year have been extremely low) on a monthly voucher arrangement. All payments are deposited through covert Agency channels into a separate bank account for Wiley in New York."

"By virtue of his non-government activities in obtaining photographic assignments and in assisting other writers in research, in addition to occasional sales of his articles directly to publishers, Wiley's cover firm has so far been self-funding. He usually requires a large out-lay of cash in addition to his regular payments only if he is making an overseas trip."

Re

SEP 30 1975

RCM

CIA

-90-

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32203889 Page 78


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

SECRETI

"Wiley is known to be a CIA employee by numerous individuals, such as: the staff of National Review; Herbert Romerstein, a close friend of Wiley and a former Communist; Lee Pennington, Elsa Bernaut and Hede Massing; J. B. Matthews and his wife, former Communists with whom Wiley is friendly; and by
of being a CIA employee by various Cuban refugees
CIA Covert Source
He is suspected
with whom he became friendly following his incarceration in a Cuban prison.

"Wiley's firm was used as a cover for various assignments given by SRS to CIA Covert Source , to the extent that WNA press credentials were in their possession until 1964 CIA Covert So. is known to have discussed his Agency affiliation and correspondence through Wiley with at least several other persons and furnished considerable written material relating thereto to Congressman Daddario."

In February 1967, Wiley suggested that in light of the then recent disclosures about CIA and youth activities, he be actively engaged in many media activities designed to counter-act the bad publicity.

On 3 March 1967, Cecil Tighe sent a note to Paul Gaynor stating that Wiley suggests he be permitted to make overtures to the media for personal appearances and articles regarding his involvement in the various youth festivals. Tighe said he advised Wiley: "Nix - to stay quiet." Tighe asked Gaynor whether he concurred. The memo is merely signed: "Noted" by Gaynor.

A blind memorandum dated 7 March 1967 contains the following:

"During Wiley's employment by OS/Security Research Staff, he attended the 7th World Youth Festival at Vienna in 1959, and the 8th at Helsinki in 1962, following which he furnished detailed information to this Agency, as well as to FBI, HCUA, etc. He also made trips to Cuba in an attempt to secure details relating to a matter of sensitive interest to DDP, and on the second trip in 1960 was confined for eight days by the Cuban authorities

-91-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

SECRET

before being expelled. He has visited the USSR, and several Iron Curtain countries, the Far East, Middle East and Africa, Central and South America, Korea and the Republic of China. His interviews at the front in Vietnam with American enlisted men during 1964 received considerable attention when utilized by one of the major radio networks, and his articles regarding Vietnam and other projects which appeared in a well-known magazine received much favorable comment."

Sometime before 24 January 1967, Wiley prepared two reports relative to a possible trip to Hanoi. When the reports were presented to Paul F. Gaynor, Chief, SRS, on 27 February 1967, Gaynor designated "No" to certain proposals made by Wiley, to wit:

a. The use of credentials from established media.

b. Accompaniment of Wiley by FBI controlled sources (known to Wiley) in leftist circles.

On 7 April 1967, Cecil Tighe, SRS, wrote Wiley a letter which confirmed Paul Caynor's oral instructions given Wiley in Washington on 29 March 1967. Wiley's instructions were as follows:

Limit your activities to:

1. Spotting contacts
2. To assessing them, but under no circumstances be guilty of any recruitment.

On 26 April 1967, Tighe formalized to the C/SRS a memorandum of discussion with Wiley, captioned "Wiley's affiliation with the Support Our Boys in Vietnam parade, New York City, 13 May 1967," to wit:

"1. In accordance with your instructions, I advised Wiley that he had received your permission to become active with the above named Support Committee. He was advised, that under no circumstances, was he to indicate that he was in any way associated with received any guidance from this source.

-92-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

"2. Wiley advised he had been appointed Press Office for the Support Committee and had as his first act in this capacity obtained from the New York City Police Department a permit to parade on Fifth Avenue on 13 May. At the present time, he is attempting to locate a colored Congressional Medal of Honor Vietnam veteran to appear and speak on the day in question. At the moment, he is attempting to reach Gen. Westmorland to obtain a statement from him regarding the uplift of morale such a parade will have on the fighting forces in Vietnam.

"3. Today Wiley is also attempting to have an audience with George Meany,. President, AFL, in order to enlist his assistance in obtaining participants for the parade. Wiley. in addition, is also going to request Mr. Meany to issue a directive to all AFL-CIO unions to send participants and back the parade to its fullest extent. According to Wiley, he has already seen Gleason, President of ILA and ILA has promised its full cooperation.

"4. The Support Committee has already lined up all of the veteran organizations in and around New York City who have promised that they will turn out their personnel in full. Wiley said that he has been in touch with the New York State National Guard, and they are going to furnish skydivers and a fly-over as an added attraction for the parade.

"5. Tomorrow, 27 April 1967, Wiley said that he has an appointment to see Cardinal Spellman to enlist his aid in

FROM
SEP 30 1975
CIA

-93-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

# SECRET

sending to the parade parochial school children and as many bands as can be accommodated. In addition to the above, Wiley states that he had many of the foreign newspapers alerted and has received some assurance from various foreign groups that they would like representation in the parade.

"6. Finally, Wiley said that if he had difficulty with the military in New York City with respect to his request for a Negro Medal of Honor winner to appear for the parade, he may ask assistance from us. In summary, he said that if this thing bombs, the New Left, including Martin Luther King, Stokley Carmichael, McKissic, et all will never let the country forget it."

When the C/SRS, Paul Gaynor, reviewed this memo, Gaynor - adjacent to the last paragraph - commented, "No. He should deal with Army. There is only one such (colored Medal of Honor winner), a medical corps specialist."

On 1 May 1967, Tighe wrote a formal memo of a discussion with Wiley on that date regarding "A report from Wiley regarding the forthcoming parade in New York on 13 May." The body of the memorandum reflects among other matters that Wiley claimed he had phone contact with John Roach regarding possible White House support for the parade. John Roach was an assistant to Harry McPherson of the White House Staff. "Roach has promised the Committee substantial support."

A brief memorandum by Tighe, dated 3 May 1967, contains as an attachment an article from the 3 May 1967 edition of the *New York Times* concerning the "Support Our Boys in Vietnam Parade." The C/SRS brought the article to the attention of the Director of Security, Howard J. Osborn, who penned the word "Encouraging" on the transmittal slip. Tighe also wrote a brief memo with an editorial *New York Times* article attachment, dated 5 May 1967.

![stamp of received from CIA on September 30 1975]

-94-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

SECRET

Circa 2 June 1967, Wiley prepared a report which he captioned, "Basic Theme of Letter to Ex-Presidents" outlining an effort to further the "Parade" concept.

On 15 June 1967, Tighe formalized information from Wiley, to wit:

"1. Success has gone to Wiley's head. Since he and Gilmer, the Fire Department Captain in New York put on a successful "Support the Boys in Vietnam Parade," Wiley now wants to stage parades in 120 cities throughout the United States.

"2. Much of his ambition stems from a remark that Tina is reported to have made to him and to which he agrees. Wiley said that Tina said he could make a million dollars in public relations work if he promoted something in which he was really interested. Wiley stated to me that this is true because he has not had his heart in his recent work for us. He said now he plans to start selling America.

"3. He is so carried away by his exuberance that he requested permission to use up to and including $1,000 of our funds to establish an office, print up letterheads and use our funds to make long distance telephone calls to the various 120 cities. He plans to call his office, The Committee for Responsible Patriotism. From what I can gather, he has no support from any source but on his own initiative he prepared two letters, one to General Eisenhower and one to former President Harry S. Truman, which I have attached for your information. He requested that through our liaison with General Eisenhower and Harry S. Truman we approach them and solicit their support in his behalf.

SEP 1975

CIA

-95-

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 83


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

SECRETI

"4. I explained to Wiley that his interest was well motivated but under no circumstances would we permit an expenditure of any funds in this regard. I also told him it would be extremely awkward for us to approach General Eisenhower or Mr. Truman in his behalf.

"5. There is a strong possibility he may call you thinking that you may give him authority for financial assistance. Let me know if I should continue to discourage Wiley in his efforts, particularly when it's going to cost us money."

At the conclusion of the last paragraph, C/SRS, Paul F. Gaynor, noted, "Yes. We cannot spend our funds for internal propaganda purposes."

There is a record of a 2 January 1970 phone conversation with Wiley concerning Wiley's involvement in pro-Viet Nam activity. "Wiley said had been coordinated at a high level with the Pentagon and he has their OK," regarding prisoner of war activity. The writer noted, "Discussion with Wiley relayed to P.G. I suggested that during next meeting with Wiley, he be told that while we do no (sic) disapproval of his actions in this respect, we cannot approve sponsor or imply approval in any way. P.G. said 'OK tell him.'"

This record is quoted as follows:

"Charles Wiley called collect
and said his organization's campaign
to get humane treatment for prisoners
of Hanoi (i.e., signatures to petitions)
was going very well and that they had
'tens of thousands' of signatures with
the efforts his workers had put out.
This activity, Wiley said had been
coordinated at a high level with the
Pentagon and he has their OK. Through
the Pentagon, they have been in touch
with the wives. However, they plan to

KTROM
SEP 30 1975
CIA

-96-

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 84

SECRETI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

SECRETT

phase out of this activity at the end of the month. They'll turn it over to the wives. They are running out of money and have enough to last until end of month. They'll put this activity on shelf for a few months. They have had 'unbelievable backing' from #2 man in New York State. Wants to hold off a week or so on status report on this. In coordination with Pentagon, they merely advise of what they plan and tell Pentagon to object in writing if they do. Discussion with Wiley relayed to P.G. I suggested that during next meeting with Wiley, he be told that while we do no disapprove of his actions in this respect, we can not approve, sponsor, or imply approval in any way. P.G. said OK tell him."

A blind memorandum regarding Wiley was prepared by CIA Covert Employee SRS, on 14 April 1970, being directed to Paul F. Gaynor, who noted his concurrence. In total, the memorandum states:

"Subject (Wiley) telephoned today after having talked with Mr. McCord and advised that he had unfortunately lost the race to be a Congressional candidate from his district. I extended sympathy but personally felt this resolved a problem that could have resulted in his termination should he have been elected a candidate.

"Subject asked whether there were any questions concerning his income tax form, and I advised him, after consulting with the Head of the Covert Tax Committee, that there did not appear to be any significant questions. Subject

RE
ROM
SEP 20 1975
CIA

-97-

SECRET!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

informed me that he would then go ahead and file his return to IRS. Mr. Powell, however, of the Covert Tax Committee, did say that they had some questions concerning Subject's expenses under Schedule C. Specifically, whether Subject's trunk line to New York City, cable address, and trips to Washington had been reimbursed by the Agency. I informed Mr. Powell that we had no record of any such reimbursement and that these expenses were assumed by Subject, solely.

"It was indicated by Subject that it was hopeful his throat ailment would soon clear which would make it possible for him to visit Washington within the next week or two."

"It would seem prudent to me, prior to Subject's pending visit, that we prepare something akin to an agreement or letter of instruction which would clearly indicate to Subject that assignments to him, whether oral or not, would eventually be followed up by written confirmation of such assignment. Such a letter of understanding or agreement would, it seems to me, serve to protect Subject as well as the Agency in the event of any further problem or incident which might involve Subject. For example, many of Subject's activities may be construed as domestic political action and as such could be identified as an Agency contractual employee. From time to time, as you Subject has telephonically ed us of his personal activities

> [Figure: stamp of the word RECEIVED above SEP 30 1975 and CIA]

-98-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

SECRETI

and may assume that such advice and acknowledgement on our part would be Agency approval for his activities. While such is not the case, it is believed that we should formalize this part of our contract with him so that he knows that his personal activities, regardless of area, are not construed as an extension of Agency plans or programs. At the same time, Subject can be assured of our continuing interest in him as a "standby" asset.

"Should you have any questions concerning this subject, I would be pleased to discuss them further."

Attached to this blind memorandum is a Memorandum of Understanding, dated 29 April, signed by Wiley, with an indicated copy given to Wiley, stating:

"In order to avoid any possible misunderstanding in the future and in recognition of my many personal and official activities, I agree that any assignments given to me by my associates in Washington will be made a matter of written record. As security permits and when convenient and possible, I will be shown a copy of any such assignment and will initial same showing the date the assignment was received.

"My acknowledgement of this arrange- ment does not in any way change or abro- gate the nature of my association with my employer. I understand that this procedure is solely for the purpose of providing some evidence and a record of those assignments I have officially received."

DERIVED FROM
SEP 30 1975
CIA

-99-

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 87


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

From 1956 to 1962, Wiley's case officer was James W. McCord, Jr., with alternate contact H. Clifton Carrico. From 1962 to 1966, his case officer was Morse Allen, with alternate Ethel Mendoza. During 1966-1970, he was in contact with Cecil C. Tighe, and later with CIA Covert Employee From 1970 to January 1974, his case officer has been Louis W. Vasaly. During most of the period from 1957 to June 1973, Wiley was infrequently in contact with the Chief, Security Research Staff, Paul F. Gaynor.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

SECRET

COVER

James E. McCord reported in a memo dated 1 May 1956 to the Chief, External Branch/SRS, that he approached Lee Pennington of the Americanism Committee of the American Legion to determine whether he, Pennington, would be agreeable to supporting CIA by providing cover for Wiley's work. Pennington wholeheartedly agreed to do so, stating that:

"1. Should questions arise from acquaintances or friends as to where the index cards for the 1933-1936 are located, that Wiley can tell them that their typing is being handled by the American Legion Americanism Committee in Washington."

"2. That in Wiley's work for the coming year in continuing the index of the *Daily Worker*, that he can advise his friends and acquaintances that the financing and continuation of this work is being handled by the Americanism Committee of the American Legion. Should anyone press him for further details, he can merely refer them to Lee Pennington, who will furnish them with the same story."

On 23 August 1958, Wiley wrote a report entitled "The Problem of a 'Cover'" in which he claims his original cover given him has worn thin and for all purposes is not existent. Wiley cites examples to back up his contention and makes several suggestions for improvement of cover or the establishment of a new one.

Apparently this latter memorandum initiated some action by SRS officers who were handling Wiley since in the fall of 1958. Records indicate that Wiley had begun to build cover as a newsman and holds press credentials in the North American Newspaper Alliance, *Indianapolis Star*, and *National Review* and he will attempt to obtain credentials from all newspapers and magazines with which he comes affiliated.

RECEIVED FROM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

-101-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

SECRET

In an effort to provide Mr. Wiley with a more substan-tial mechanism for operations to increase his journalistic reputation, it was decided that he would set up a news-gathering service based in New York City and secure, where possible, the services of writers or journalists who would feed him news storeis from various points in the world. This would have the advantage of being a legitimate news-gathering service and at the same time possibly being later used as an information-gathering organization for intelligence purposes. Acting under instructions, Wiley, in 1959 or 1960, founded World News Analysis, opened an office in Flushing, New York, had press credentials made and conducted business to a certain extent in the name of this organization. Wiley has pretty much maintained this cover ever since.

RECE.....

SEP 30 1975

CIA

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 90

-102-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

SECRET

PERSONAL ACTIVITY

Since 1966, Wiley's specific assignments for OS have been at a minimum, whereas his personal activities have increased. Much of his personal activity has been or might be construed as having been domestic political action. In 1970, his name was placed as a candidate for U.S. Representative from the 15th district of New Jersey, but he failed to receive the nomination. However, in 1972, he did campaign as an Independent candidate for the U.S. Senate in New Jersey. He received approximately one per cent of the ballots cast in the election won by Senator Clifford P. Case.

He has been active in and frequently the prime mover in a number of organizations of conservative or right-wing persuasion. As such, he has earned considerable reputation as a capable coordinator and organizer through actions in support of "pro-American" and conservative causes. The parades, receptions, petition gathering, demonstrations and other publicity making ventures in which he has participated have run the gamut of support for the Republic of Vietnam, U.S. war policies, strong national defense posture, the Nationalist Chinese, U.S. prisoners in foreign lands and anti-bussing for integration.

Among these organizations with which he has been prominently identified are:

Parents and Taxpayers: an organization opposing bussing for integration. He was doing public relations for this group as early as 1964 and has been periodically involved in this activity with this and other organizations to date.

Free China Support Group and The Committee of 1,000,000: these organizations are pro-Nationalist China and actively opposed the U.S. recognition of the Peoples Republic of China.

Young Americans for Freedom: a conservatively oriented youth group.

Committee to Unite America: as a member in 1971, he was active in its efforts aimed at lowering the level of public hostility toward government policies.

-103-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

National Committee for Responsible Patriotism (NCRP): as its Executive Director and one of its founders in 1967, he has been its principal member and has been involved with managing its office, raising funds, and charting its activities. Operating principally with volunteers and donated funds, Wiley, who has occasionally received some private remuneration for his services, has organized numerous parades, receptions, motorcades, banquets and programs. He has arranged publicity and made a number of media appearances. In connection with these and other activities he has had close contact with labor leaders, the military and the White House. In April 1973, Wiley received a signed commendation from President Nixon in recognition of his efforts, which states:

"Dear Mr. Wiley:

"The overwhelming success of the recent New York parade in honor of our Vietnam veterans was truly heartening, and I know that the greatest share of the credit for this is due to the remarkable efforts of you and your organization. The tribute that was paid to our Nation's servicemen is an inspiring reminder of the pride all Americans feel for those who gave so much in the cause of freedom. I am sure I speak for citizens throughout the country in expressing deep appreciation for your unselfish dedication of time and talent to this patriotic project.

"With my gratitude and very best wishes,

Sincerely,

Richard Nixon"

Among activities which the NCRP organized are:

Free USS Pueblo Sailors
Free American Citizen George Pellezo from Cuban Prison


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

SECRET

Honor America Week (1969)
Support Our POW's and MIA's (1970)
Operation Gratitude for Firemen and Law Enforcement
Forces (1970)
Welcome Home with Honor Day (1973)

The NCRP is currently engaged in the initial stages
of planning for a possible reception and program in the
near future for the recently exiled Soviet author, Alexander
I. Solzhenitsyn.

RECEIVED FROM
SEP 30 1975
CIA

-105-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

# TERMINATION

During the course of the reorganization of the Office of Security, it was decided that the Security Research Staff would be abolished. This decision led to the preparation of a memorandum for the Director of Security from the Chief, Security Staff, dated 1 June 1973, captioned "Request for Director of Security Assessment Regarding Continuance of Functions and Possible Replacement." The last paragraph of this memorandum stated:

"For immediate planning purposes, to fulfill the early deadline already established, it would be appreciated if you would review the attached outlines of existing functions and indicate your desires regarding the function (continue, continue with low priority, discontinue) and where you wish any retained functions to be placed in the reorganization structure. In the latter instance, I have attempted to indicate the more likely options for this to facilitate your assessment."

On 4 June 1973, the Director of Security indicated that "Special Access Sources" (Charles W, Lee P.) should continue on a low priority and be transferred to the Operational Support Branch.

On 8 June 1973, CIA Cover Employee (SRS), in a memorandum to the Chairman, Clearance Division Implementation Committee, OS/PSI, reorganization subject "Research Branch, Clearance Division, OS/DD/PSI, Implementation" noted that Special Access Source Wiley had been approved to be continued, but on a low priority basis and transferred to the Operational Support Branch.

Shortly after the implementation of the reorganization of the Office of Security on 1 August 1973, John Dempsey, Chief, Research Branch, verbally discussed and reviewed with Edwal Jones, Chief, Clearance Division, the disposition of certain SRS functions still in the possession of the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

SECRET

Research Branch, but recommended and approved for transfer
to other components of the Office of Security. Among those
items discussed was "Special Access Source" Charles Wiley.
Messrs. Jones and Dempsey agreed that Wiley was not worth
the money spent, performed little or no useful service for
the Office of Security, and in fact had done little or
nothing to justify his keep. It was further agreed that
Mr. Jones would discuss Wiley and make known to the Deputy
Director of Security (PSI), Stanton Ense, the agreed assess-
ment of Wiley.

Mr. Jones next informed Mr. Dempsey that a memorandum
should be prepared reviewing the Wiley case, making recom-
mendations as to disposition. A memorandum was then pre-
pared by Louis Vasaly of the Research Branch, dated 18 Sep-
tember 1973, which recalled the history of Wiley's associa-
tion with the Office of Security with a recommendation for
termination. The only disagreement was as to timing.
Mr. Dempsey recommended 30 June 1974; Mr. Jones 1 February
1974. The Deputy Director of Security (PSI) agreed with
the 1 February 1974 termination date and suggested using
the same procedure as in the Pennington case.

On 25 October 1973, Louis Vasaly and John Dempsey,
both of the Research Branch, met Wiley at the Key Bridge
Marriot Motel, Arlington, Virginia, to effect his termina-
tion. Wiley was most unhappy with the proceeding although
claiming to understand that budget problems and curtail-
ment of domestic activities lead to his separation. He
acknowledged that written notice of his termination by his
signature; however, he appended that the notice was "signed
with the reservation that the terms will be appealed," and
stating he would seek redress either with the Director of
Central Intelligence or contacts on Capitol Hill.

Wiley was contacted twice more on 6 November 1973,
and on 12 February 1974, both times in New York City, by
Sidney Stembridge, Deputy Director of Security (P&M) and
Louis Vasaly. At the former meeting, Mr. Stembridge politely
explained to Wiley that CIA is no longer engaged in matters
in which he had been assisting and that there was, there-
fore, no further need for his services. Mr. Stembridge
indicated that the Office of Security might be able to
assist financially in a limited sense beyond the 31 January
termination date, but that would be the limit of any help.

-107-

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

On the latter occasion, Mr. Stembridge informed Wiley that he had been awarded a termination bonus of $4,000, which figure, in essence, represented his salary covered forward from 31 January through 30 June 1974. He again objected to OS help, expressing dissatisfaction with his termination, and rejected the terminal bonus. Mr. Stembridge concluded the interview by reminding Wiley that his termination was effective, previously executed Secrecy Agreement was still binding and Mr. Stembridge would be available to him for additional assistance if required. It was definitely made clear to Wiley that the next action is to come from him.

An "information only" memorandum from the Director of Security to the Director of Central Intelligence concerning Wiley was sent on 25 February 1974.

![RECEIVED stamp] RECEIVED
SEP 30 1975
CIA

-108-

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 96


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

# CHARLES WILEY'S CONTACTS AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH
JAMES MCCORD, LEE PENNINGTON, DONALD SWEANY AND HOWARD HUNT

## JAMES MCCORD

James McCord was the first representative of the Office of Security to have contact with Wiley and was undoubtedly the driving force behind the Agency's funding of the Daily Worker index. McCord was Wiley's primary case officer from 1956 through January 1962 and during this period, guided and was more or less responsible for Wiley's direction and control.

The nature of McCord's contacts with Wiley after 1962 are not exactly known since McCord left SRS in January 1962 for other positions within the Office of Security. The files do, however, contain the following information which indicate some contact between McCord and Wiley after 1969. The exact nature of these contacts is not definitely known, especially those in May - June 1969; however, the presumption is that Wiley at the direction of McCord may have reported on and photographed anti-Viet Nam War demonstrations in Washington, D. C., during that period and gave the results of his work to McCord who retired from CIA on 31 August 1970.

On 30 May 1969, Cecil Tighe of SRS recorded, "Jim McCord notified me today that Wiley would arrive in Washington, D. C., tonight for a meeting with McCord concerning some Mayday Project that has been assigned to Wiley."

On 5 June 1969, Tighe recorded, "Wiley telephoned from New York City on 4 June 1969 to request that I turn over to Jim McCord the light meter which we drew from Logistics for his use last month in connection with his photography work. Wiley said that Jim McCord planned to meet him in New York City over the week-end." Tighe then called McCord's office and instructed them that Tighe had the meter and it would be available in a package for transmittal to Wiley if someone would come by and pick it up. As of June 1969, no one had called or inquired further into the matter.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

On 6 June 1969, Tighe recorded that Jim McCord
advised him on that date that he, McCord, had visited
Wiley in New York City on the 4th and 5th of June 1969.
McCord gave Tighe photographs from Wiley which had been
"entrusted" to Wiley "many years ago" by Morse Allen.
The photograph had the following names on the back:
Vianamin Belitsky, Fred Borodin, Michel Reschal, and
Deak Zoltan.

Memorandum, dated 12 March 1970 by CIA Cover
Employee states: "Wiley apparently had telephoned Jim
McCord and at the end of their discussion, Wiley, or
McCord, had the call transferred to our number."

Memorandum, dated 6 April 1970 by CIA Cover
Employee to Chief, SRS states: "I received the attached
vouchers and an accounting from Wiley on Saturday. I note
that among other things, he spent over $120.00 on film.
Should this part of the accounting be referred to McCord,
or do we accept it as presented? It is not clear that it
meets Agency requirements, as all expenses are not matched
up by necessary receipts."

A memorandum, dated 14 April 1970, captioned "Charles
Wiley" states: "Subject telephoned today after having
talked with Mr. McCord and advised that he had unfortunately
lost the race to be a Congressional candidate from his
district."

McCord may also have been in contact with Wiley during
1970-71 concerning the monitoring of a book to be written
by CIA Covert Agent an ex-Communist and CIA source, who had
been involved in certain operations for this Agency (not
mentioned in the file) in Mexico. The Agency was rather
concerned whether CIA Covert Agent would expose his working for CIA
and assigned Wiley to help edit the book. The following
excerpts from the file tend to support the above contention:

A memorandum, dated 30 June 1970, captioned "Contact
Report, Charles Wiley," states: "Wiley further suggested
that, along with Jim McCord, he continue to handle CIA Covert Agent
and would brief CIA Covert Agent so as to keep him content until he,
Wiley, returns from his European trip." (This very probably
refers to CIA Covert Agent


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

# SECRET

A memorandum, dated 13 January 1971 captioned "Charles Wiley" states: "Says CIA Covert Agent. has stated that he now wants to leave in some material (Mexico) that earlier McCord suggested not be included." (Apparently material for book Agent vewas writing with Wiley's assistance.)

A memorandum, dated 5 February 1971, captioned "Charles Wiley (records problem Wiley reported having with CIA Covert Agent states: "Wiley thinks that perhaps Jim McCord could reason with him if matters don't improve.

says McCord isn't with us any more, but Wiley says / still has high regard for McCord and might listen. Wiley believes he, Wiley, may be able to settle the problem, but if not, thinks we ought to have McCord talk to "

A similar memorandum, dated 9 February 1971, further outlines Wiley's problem with CIA Covertand states: "Wiley suggested it's time to see what McCord can do with If we bring McCord back in, he ought to discuss the case with Wiley before he has contact with CIA Covert Agent

Another memorandum, dated 12 February 1971 reflects: called McCord. Details of discussion unknown; however, gather that Jim impressed with fact that any mention of the company or personnel by in his book would be at least potentially damaging to activities that are of interest currently."

In a memorandum, dated 19 February 1971, it is reflected that Vasaly "had brief telephone conversation with Wiley this p.m. He understood from CIA Covert that Agent

CIACofid conversed with Jim McCord recents But did not know the essence of the conversation nor any future plans for contact between them. Advised Wiley that it was our understanding that McCord had again emphasized the need for Agent cover leave his Agency contact and any identification of Agency people out of the book's chapter on his 'Mexican Phase' and that apparently CIA Covert Agent had agreed."

In a memorandum, dated 23 February 1971, captioned "Charles Wiley," the problem with reportedly continues: said McCord had in effect okayed what wanted to include in his chapter on Mexican Operations"...

![CIA seal]

FROM

SEP 30 1975

CIA

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 99

111

SECDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

CIA Covert
told Wiley that McCord is out of it anyway and that another person is supposed to get in touch with
Agent
CIA Covert..."Wiley will call McCord tonight for a briefing on handling the Mexican material. Afterwards, Wiley can stall for a week or so by saying he had to send the material to McCord for perusal and opinion."
Agent

A memorandum, dated 9 March 1971, captioned "Charles Wiley" suggests Wiley intended to contact McCord regarding the CIA Covert Agent matter in the near future.

A memorandum, dated 29 December 1971 records a conversation with Wiley concluding with the statement: "He repeated his holiday greetings and was a little concerned apparently that he hadn't had a card from McCord - wondered if anything had happened to him, etc."

On 28 June 1972, Wiley telephoned Louis W. Vasaly of SRS and remarked that he, Wiley, was really surprised at the depth the FBI must be covering this, i.e., Watergate, as he had already been approached and interviewed by a couple of FBI agents based on several long distance calls Jim, i.e., McCord, had made to him. Wiley further stated he only told them, i.e., FBI, Jim was an old friend and occasionally solicited information from Wiley, just as the Bureau did.

On 9 April 1973, Wiley called Louis W. Vasaly to inform him that his wife, Tina, had taken her life. Wiley suggested that Ruth and Jim McCord, Lee Pennington, Morse Allen, Cliff Carrico and Paul Gaynor be advised. Mr. Vasaly called Lee Pennington who in turn would advise Ruth McCord on the afternoon of 9 April.

LEE PENNINGTON

The exact degree of Wiley's knowledge of and association with Lee Pennington is not fully known from records available in the Wiley file. However, it is known that Pennington probably knew Wiley as early as 1954 from Pennington's work with the Americanism Committee of the American Legion and Wiley's index work on behalf of that organization. Wiley has claimed on several occasions to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

# SECRET

have a close association with Pennington without elaborating
as to specific details. For example: On March 1967, Wiley
prepared a report which states as follows - "In dealing with
Don (Sweaney) and Lee (Pennington), both of whom know of my
connection, I avoid any talk of my company activities.
At one time, both knew some of my work because we received
cooperation from them on certain projects. However, since
Don went to his present job there has been little contact.

I talk to Don as I do to everyone else. I ignore any
questions or statements with double meanings, surreptitious
glances, etc. This is because of two reasons - need-to-know
rule and Don is seldom out of earshot of fellow workers. No
one overhearing us will learn anything I don't want them to
know.

"Since the recent exposure of company activities is
the chief topic of discussion, and especially since I am
considered by many as an 'expert' on one of the projects,
there is little way of avoiding the subject without arousing
suspicion. I have always taken the same stand, that of a
critic - but with qualifications - regarding the area of
my knowledge. Under the circumstances, it would be quite
impossible to take any other position.

"During my discussion with Don, the only company
business that was mentioned was the project with which
everyone knows I am familiar. It is, therefore, obvious
that I could not have said what was reported. I would
suggest that someone other than the original source talk
to Don. I would also urge that both Don and Lee be reminded
not to mention, under any circumstances, their knowledge of
me."

DONALD SWEANY

Wiley's knowledge of and association with Sweany is
not fully known from the Wiley files, nor is there any
reference to any such association in the Office of Security
file on Donald Sweany. However, it can be presumed, based
upon their mutual association with Lee Pennington at the
American Legion, that they probably have known each other

![RECEIVED FROM]

SEP 30 1975

CIA

113
SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 101


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

# SECRET

since 1954. Other than Wiley's comment concerning Pennington and Sweany, previously mentioned, there is nothing else from Wiley concerning Sweany.

## HOWARD HUNT

There is nothing in the Wiley files to indicate any contact or association with Howard Hunt. Sometime prior to 24 August 1970 and probably between the fall of 1969 and April 1970, Wiley provided SRS with a manuscript entitled "Give Us This Day," which was circulating amongst some New York publishers none of whom wished to publish it because of its controversial nature, i.e. Bay of Pigs operation. The writer of the manuscript was later identified as Howard Hunt. The exact details concerning this incident are not available in the Wiley files.

Further on this theme, on 19 June 1973, Wiley called Louis Vasaly of SRS to say that he had in his hands a copy of Howard Hunt's manuscript "Give Us This Day." Wiley was advised that he had probably forgotten but that we had had access to it several years ago when Hunt submitted it to a different publisher. (Wiley reportedly had made it available at that time). Wiley said that he believed that this publisher was going to take advantage of the recent publicity (meaning Watergate apparently) and, of course, bring it out under Hunt's true name. Wiley was told that we (SRS) had no interest in his copy and that he could return it to the contact who made it available to him. There was no further discussion on the matter.

The above is the extent of references to Howard Hunt in the Wiley files.

![Received From, SEP 30 1975, CIA]

![114 SECRET]

NW 50955 DocId:32203889 Page 102


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)