# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 7/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10109
RECORD SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-15

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 06/25/1975
PAGES: 19
SUBJECTS: HARVEY, WILLIAM
ZRRIFLE
OPERATION MONGOOSE
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: IB; IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/08/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: CCBOX 418


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 08/06/95
Page : 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10109
RECORDS SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-15

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 06/25/75
PAGES : 19
SUBJECTS : HARVEY, WILLIAM

OPERATION MONGOOSE

ZRRIFLE

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/05/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : CCBOX 418

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# TDP

BOX 418

MEETING 25 JUNE 75


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# AGENDA

TWENTY-FOURTH MEETING OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

10:00 A.M. ON JUNE 25, 1975 IN 457 RUSSELL BUILDING

Testimony by Mr. William Harvey

![inventory record]

NW. 50955 DocId: 32423497 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

TOP SECRET

WILLIAM HARVEY

Short Chronology*

Biographical

1940-47 Counterespionage work as FBI agent

1947 Joined CIA as head of Soviet Intelligence Branch

1948 Deputy Assistant Director, Office of Special
Operations (which became DDP)

1952 Chief of Station, Berlin (Berlin Tunnel operation)

1959 Became Chief of Foreign Intelligence staff Division
D (FI/D) which handles communications intelligence
and sensitive methods of obtaining it (*e.g.*,
surreptitious entries)

1960

August 16 DR. EDWARD GUNN (Office of Medical Services)
receives box of Cuban cigars to be treated with
lethal poison. (21)

1961

Late January EDWARDS and O'CONNELL ask for development of
(approx.) POISON PILLS. (24)

February BISSELL (DDP) asks HARVEY to establish an EXECUTIVE
(approx.) ACTION capability under project ZRRIFLE. Harvey's
notes are quoted as saying that Bissell said he
had been "twice urged by the White House" to
establish such a capability. (37) Harvey is
briefed, probably by both BISSELL and EDWARDS, on
the Phase I assassination plot run by Sheffield
EDWARDS and James O'CONNELL (Office of Security)
which involved criminal syndicate connections. (37)

HARVEY uses agent QJWIN (recruited earlier by
ARNOLD SILVER for use in an assassination operation
against LUMUMBA) as the principle asset for ZRRIFLE.
(38)

Edwards has the POISON PILLS tested. (25)

* Page references in parentheses are from the 1967 Report of the Inspector
  General of the CIA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

TOP SECRET                                                                            2

1961 (cont'd)

Early Feb.             According to Dr. GUNN, HARVEY asked about the
pills he tested. Gunn briefed Harvey, who told
him to brief SIDNEY GOTTLIEB about techniques
but not targets. (27)

Late Feb.              Pills given to ROSELLI by O'CONNELL are passed
to TRAFFICANTE. (27) ROSELLI reports to O'CONNELL
that pills reached ORTA in Cuba. ORTA returns
pills in couple weeks. (27)

March-Early April       O'CONNELL gives pills and money to ROSELLI who
passes them to VARONA. (32)

Mid-April              Bay of Pigs invasion fails; JFK appoints Taylor
Committee.

November 15            Beginning of PHASE II: BISSELL instructs HARVEY to
apply the ZRRIFLE assassination capability to
Castro. (39) Harvey takes over the criminal syndicate
contacts developed in Phase I. (39) HARVEY is told
by HELMS that he is to take over the CIA Cuba
task force. (39)

November 29            MC CONE replaces Allen Dulles as DCI

1962

February               EDWARDS briefs HARVEY on Castro operation. (40)

February 7             EDWARDS meets with FBI to ask them not to prosecute
the Rowan wiretap case because of CIA concern. (60)

February 19            HELMS (DDP nominee) authorizes HARVEY to handle
ZRRIFLE project with unvouchered funds. (38)

April 8-9              HARVEY, ROSELLI, O'CONNELL, and perhaps MAHEU meet
in New York to plan Phase II. (43) (Harvey disputes
O'Connell's recollection that Maheu was there and
knowledgeable of Phase II.) Both Edwards and
Harvey check with HELMS before the meeting is
arranged and HARVEY obtains Helm's approval not to
brief MC CONE (41). Harvey thereafter begins
regular reporting to Helms on Phase II. (41)

April 14               HARVEY, ROSELLI, and O'CONNELL meet in Miami. (46)

April 18-19            Pills are delivered to Harvey in Washington. (46)

NW 50955 DocId:32423497 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

TOP SECRET

1962 (cont'd)

April 21 HARVEY passes the pills to ROSELLI in Florida. (47)
Roselli was to give the pills to Varona, who had an
asset in Cuba with access to Castro's restaurant.
At this point Roselli is using Tony VARONA and
"MACEO" as contacts with Cuba rather than Trafficante.
(47-8)

Late April HARVEY, with help of Ted SHACKLEY (Chief of JMWAVE
station in Miami), loaded arms and equipment in a
U-Haul truck which was left in a parking lot for
Roselli, who delivered it to a Cuban contact. (49-50)

Throughout May Intense contact between HARVEY and ROSELLI. Roselli
reports that pills are in Cuba at the restaurant
frequented by Castro awaiting the opportunity to
use them. (50)

May 7 EDWARDS and HOUSTON brief ATTORNEY GENERAL ROBERT F.
KENNEDY on PHASE I of the assassination operation. (62a)*

May 14 Edwards tells HARVEY of the briefing of RFK. (65)
Harvey says that he briefed HELMS about this and
advised against briefing McCone (DCI) or Carter
(DDCI); Helms agreed. (65)

HARVEY is told by EDWARDS that the "tacit approval"
of the DCI should be obtained if Roselli was to be
used any further. (65) Harvey told Edwards that
Roselli would not be used any more. (According to
Edwards' memorandum of 5/14/62.) (42)

June 21 ROSELLI tells HARVEY that VARONA has sent three men
to Cuba to recruit others for the pill plot. (51)

August 10 Special Group (Augmented) meets on OPERATION MONGOOSE.
HARVEY and MC CONE said that MCNAMARA raised the
subject of assassinations at this meeting in regard
to new plans.

August 13 General LANSDALE'S memorandum assigns to HARVEY the
drafting of an outline of intelligence, political,
economic, and paramilitary activities for the
implementation of MONGOOSE. The task includes
planning for "splitting the regime, including liquida-
tion of leaders".

* RFK asks to be told before the CIA works with the Mafia again. (62a)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

TOP SECRET

1962 (cont'd)

August 14

HARVEY writes a memorandum to DDP HELMS saying that he advised Lansdale's aide FRANK HAND to excise the words "including liquidation of leaders" from the LANSDALE memo because of "the inadmissibility and stupidity of putting this type of comment in writing in such a document". Harvey also tells Helms that he has "careful notes" on MC NAMARA'S discussion of assassination at the Special Group meeting of August 10.

September

Pills still in place; HARVEY learns that VARONA is ready to send another team to Cuba. (51)

October

CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS

1963

February

HARVEY and ROSELLI agree in Los Angeles to call off the operation, although not to break precipitously with VARONA. (52)

June

HARVEY and ROSELLI have last dinner in Washington and are observed by SAM PAPICH of the FBI, who has ROSELLI under intensive surveillance. Harvey asks Papich to let him know if HOOVER is going to call MC CONE. (53-4) Harvey briefs Helms and Helms agrees not to brief McCone unless it appears that McCone will receive a call from Hoover. (54)

August 16

Spurred by a Chicago newspaper story of the same day, HELMS sends MC CONE the Edwards memo of 5/14/62 of the RFK briefing. (69)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SEGRET
EYES ONLY

14 May 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: John Rosselli

INVENTORIED:
ON MAR 2 1977
BY

1. In early April Mr. William Harvey asked me to arrange a contact with Subject. The meeting in New York City was arranged for 9 April. I explained to Mr. Harvey that the undersigned would take no part in future operations proposed for Subject.

2. In the interim I have kept Mr. Harvey fully informed reference to my briefing of The Attorney General on the former project and cautioned him that I felt that any future projects of this nature should have the tacit approval of the Director of Central Intelligence.

3 On this date Mr. Harvey called me and indicated that he was dropping any plans for the use of Subject for the future.

![signature of Sheffield Edwards]

Sheffield Edwards
Director of Security

IVES CALY
SEGRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32423497 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

13 August 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR WILLIAM HARVEY, CIA
ROBERT HURWITCH, STATE
GEN. BENJAMIN HARRIS, DEFENSE
DON WILSON, USIA

From: Brig. Gen. Lansdale Ed

Subject: Alternate Course B

In compliance with the desires and guidance expressed in the 10 August policy meeting on Operation Mongoose, we will produce an outline of an alternate Course E for submission. The CIA paper "Operational Plan (Reduced Effort)" will be used as the starting basis.

Since this is to be a bare outline, to permit further policy guidance to be developed, I believe the paper need contain only a statement of objectives and a list of implementing activities. The list of activities will be under the headings of: Intelligence, Political, Economic, Psychological, Paramilitary, and Military.

We will hold an Operational Representatives work session in my office, at 1400 hours, Tuesday, 14 August, to complete the outline paper for submission. Each of you is to bring 5 copies of completed assigned work to this work session, to permit each of us to work from a full set of Crane.

Papers required from each of you for the Tuesday meeting:

Mr. Harvey: Intelligence, Political (splitting the regime, deception), and Paramilitary. Economic (sabotage, limited). Also, any suggestions for inclusion in other sections of the paper.

Mr. Hurwitch: Statement of Objectives, Political, and Economic. Also, any suggestions for inclusion in other sections of the paper.

SEC DEF CONTR No. X-1530 EXCLUDED FROM GDS

NW 50955 DocId:32423497 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET
SENSITIVE
EVES ONLY
HELMIS EX2.
6/13/75
14 August 1962
MAR 21 1977
MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director (Plans)
SUBJECT : Operation MONGOOSE

1. Action. None. This memorandum is for your information.

2. Reference is made to our conversation on 13 August 1962, concerning the memorandum of that date from General Lansdale. Attached is a copy of this memorandum, excised from which are four words in the second line of the penultimate paragraph on page 1. These four words were "including liquidation of leaders."

3. The question of assassination, particularly of Fidel Castro, was brought up by Secretary McNamara at the meeting of the Special Group (Augmented) in Secretary Rusk's office on 10 August. It was the obvious consensus at that meeting, in answer to a comment by Mr. Ed Murrow, that this is not a subject which has been made a matter of official record. I took careful notes on the comments at this meeting on this point, and the Special Group (Augmented) is not expecting any written comments or study on this point.

4. Upon receipt of the attached memorandum, I called Lansdale's office and, in his absence, pointed out to Frank Hand the inadmissibility and stupidity of putting this type of comment in writing in such a document. I advised Frank Hand that, as far as CIA was concerned, we would write no document pertaining to this and would participate in no open meeting discussing it. I strongly urged Hand to recommend to Lansdale that he excise the phrase in question from all copies of this memorandum, including those disseminated to State, Defense, and USIA. Shortly thereafter, Lansdale called back and left the message that he agreed and that he had done so.

NW 50955 DocId: 32423497 Page 11
SECRET EVES ONLY
SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

5. For your information also, in your absence and since the attached memorandum already had been distributed and in view of the possibility that this might come to the Director's attention, I informally briefed Walt Elder on the above.

![Signature]

WILLIAM K. HARVEY
Chief, Task Force W

Attachment
Memo fr Gen Lansdale dtd 13 Aug 62


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET
Project ZRRIFLE

1.  Identification: The purpose of Project ZRRIFLE is to spot, develop, and use agent assets for Division D operations. Agents will be spotted in several areas, including the United States, but for operational security reasons will probably not be used in their countries of residence. Present developmental activity is being conducted in the WE and EE areas, but it is anticipated that this will be extended to other division areas. The project will be operated against third-country installations and personnel.

2.  Objectives: The objective of this project is the procurement of code and cipher materials, and information concerning such materials, in accordance with requirements levied on the Clandestine Services, primarily by the National Security Agency. Since these requirements are subject to frequent revision, no listing of targets would be valid for the duration of the project. Specific operations will be mounted on the basis of need and opportunity. The project will be conducted by Division D with assistance from area divisions and stations as needed.

3.  Background: In response to the increasing requirements for the operational procurement of foreign code and cipher materials, Division D in 1960 began the spotting of agent assets as a developmental activity. During the same period requirements from NSA became more refined and in many respects more sensitive. Because most stations are not equipped to conduct this type of operation and because of the desirability of completely

![NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions]

![RECEIVED FROM SECRET JUN 24 1975 CIA Classified by 007789 Exempt from ceneral declassification schedule of E.O. 11252 exemption schedule 53 (1), (2), (3) Automatically declassified on Date Impossible to Determine]

NW 50955 DocId:32423497 Page 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

control over this entire effort, it was determined that Division D, which is
in closest touch with NSA on procurement requirements, could best conduct the
activity. The spotting activity has now advanced far enough to justify
removing from the OOA category.

4. Operational Assets:

(1) Personnel: QJWIN is under written contract as a principal
agent, with the primary task of spotting agent candidates. QJWIN was first
contacted in 1958 through the Chief of the Luxembourg I. S. by the Chief of
Station, Luxembourg, in connection with an illegal narcotics operation into
the United States. For a period of a year and a half he was contacted
sporadically by COS, Luxembourg, in behalf of the Bureau of Marcotics.
Files of this Bureau reflect an excellent performance by QJWIN. In
October 1960,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SEGRET                                                                                                      3

QJWIN annual salary:                                                                                             $7,200

Travel & ops expenses for QJWIN &
other agents & agent condidates:                                                                           2,000

Fees for services by and standby of agents
and agent candidates:                                                                                             2,000

Travel of staff employees engaged in
ARRIFLE activity:                                                                                                2,500

Hire of safehouses, automobiles and other
operational expenses:                                                                                               1,000
$14,700

Pay for agents on completion of jobs?

1) Legal, ethical-morale, operational problems; political: non-attributability.

2) Our own experience (Bangkok) (and effect on DDP) and experiences with
   KGB (Crossup, Bandera groups, Khokhlov) - require most professional,
   proven operationally competent, ruthless, stable, *CE-experienced* ops
   officers (few available), able to conduct patient search and with guts to
   pull back if instinct or knowledge tells him he should, and w/known high
   regard for operational security. Assessments are all-important.

3) Maximum security:

a. Kubark only (e.g., what does Siragusa now know?); no approach
to other Government agencies.

b. Within Kubark, one focal point for control, search, *training*
case officering, etc. DDP authority in this focal point mandatory

                                                                                                     RECEIVED FROM
                                                                                                           JUN 24 1975
SEGRET                                                                                                             CIA

NW 50955 DocId:32423497 Page 15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

DCI officially advised?

c. *Max.* security cable commo for *innocuous* cables only; no restrictions on travel; possibility of one-man overseas (Europe) control base with own (non-Station) commo. Word of mouth and no bashfulness re trips.

d. *No* PA's (except for search) or intermediaries; *rigid* case-officering, from start to finish.

e. *No* approach to officials of foreign governments.

f. *No* use of any agent who ever worked for a U.S. Government agency.

Training by opposition would ______.

g. *Use of already* tested assets (e.g., Manuel in the search.

h. Stand-by list of Rubarkers who can pass as foreigners.

i. Pretext: Kutube/D search; this established (e.g., Rome).

j. No discussions in Stations.

k. No "team" until ready to go, *if* at all.

4) Blackmail:

a. *No* American citizens or residents or people who ever obtained U.S. visa.

b. No chain of connections: strictly person to person; singleton ops.

c. No meeting any candidate in house territory.

d. Exclude organization criminals (e.g., Sicilians) those with record of arrests, those with instability of purpose as criminals.

SECRET

RECEIVED FROM:

JUN 24 1975

CIA
NW 50955 DocId:32423497 Page 16


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

e. Staffers ________ -selection.

5) Cover: planning should include provision for blaming Sovs or Czechs in case of blow.

6) Should have phoney 201 in RI to backstop this, all documents therein forged and backdated. Should *look* like a CE file.

7) Testing of moninees essential: re following directions, security, blackmail.

8) Former resistance personnel a possibility.

9) Use nobody who has ever dealt with criminals; otherwise will not be aware of pitfalls or consider factors such as freedom to travel, wanted lists, etc.

10) Possible use of staffers for the action.

11) Silverthorne.

Keeping of files.

SECRET

RECEIVED FROM
JUN 24 1975
CIA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

Freedom to travel

Khokhlov case.

Legal, operational & ethical-morale problems.

1) Maximum security & within Kubark only (e.g., how much does Siragusa now know?). Limitation on number code clerks for enciphering & deciphering. Gulse of Louvide objection. Siglen not secure enough.

2) *One* focal point for search, control, *training*, case-officer & PA selection. Complete DDP authority in this focal point *mandatory*. Overseas one-man control base with own (non-Station) commo.

3) Every operation to be rigidly case-officered; no silk-shirt PA's.

4) Non-attributability: *No* American citizens or American residents for direct action; *possibly* for approach to foreign elements. No criminal who tainted by use by another American agency. Use of case officers who can pass as foreigners - and *limited* official reference.

5) No *chain* of connections/permitting blackmail.

6) Don't meet any selecter in house territory.

7) Avoid discussion w/foreign officials until *all* possibility of search through private citizens (e.g., QJWIN) has been examined.

8) Planning should include provision for blaming Soviets (or Czechs) in case of blow. /4 above essential.

9) Exclude organization criminals, those with record of arrests, those who have engaged in several types of crime.

NW 50955 DocId:32423497 Page 18

SECRET

![received from CIA on JUN 24 1975]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

10) Corsicans recommended. Sicilians could lead to Mafia.

11) Former resistance personnel offer possibilities. (OSS archives.)

12) Period of testing, surveillance, etc. for each selectee.

13) All Kubark personnel involved should have some CE experience.

14) Silverthorne & stable in Paris.

15) What are limits on team or individuals selected? No "team" until ready to go.

16) Danger of Standbys.

SECRET

RECEIVED FROM
JUN 24 1975
CIA

NW 50955 DocId: 32423497 Page 19

7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

8

Scd G - 25/1 Exec Actions

"The Magic Button"

Narcotics Bureau

"for a living" RIS 201 cover

caution - Bankruptcy -- No star eyes - Jim A. Contradestinct from U-2
Not a TSD problem

Apply brakes

Last resort beyond last resort & a confession of weakness.

--El Benefactor -- assumptions
Examples of 3 "wrong"

Framework of Sid's job. Ledford
Ehut R&D - memo.

"Translating machines" - of E basic sounds project.
pherious - (V with CB)

comment - Gear

Anathesia

26/1 -- AS -- Fanforn - DCI Matter
No file

Never mentions word assassination.

1. Select proper oern to run --
2. Place a cover
3. Security Rules
4. Guide leves
5. Last Resort - Brakes -
6. No other agencies
7. No projects or papers except per cover.
8. Principal agent - (Mankel) ?
   AF - Project draft LCH tested 1500 - from NB.
   Mask spat rqm. stall AF project - cler Dbieke

Max as 2/3
B - WKH - AS-
Sid - Reserv.
Substitute - What next

![RECEIVED FROM JUN 24 1975 CIA]

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32423497 Page 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

9. Disposal
10. Targets who & where -- Must know before we can spot --
11. Case officering
12. Cover file - create to provide RIS or xxxtobel it. - non Sov
13. Note dangers of RIS counter action and monitor if they are blamed -

Fd J list - *Remember*


SECRET

![RECEIVED FROM JUN 24 1975 CIA logo]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)