2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 2/23/201

Agency Info mation

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10008-10253
RECORD SERIES: MEMORANDUM
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document In formation

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: RELATING TO "BOOK V" OF CHURCH COMMITTEE
DATE: 00/00/1976
PAGES: 12
SUBJECTS:
CASTRO
CUBA
NOTES RE: BOOK V OF CHURCH COMMITTEE REPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMEN Γ
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1994
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: BOX 441


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Book V. p. 79 In mid-1965 the CIA interrogated Tepedino, New York jeweler who had been involved with the AMLASH operation from the beginning. The report concluded that the subject was deceptive during the interrogation and withheld pertinent information in one or more relevant areas. Tepedino lied in response to questions dealing with AMLASH's and his ties to Cuban intelligence. Tepedino stated chat AMLASH had no plan to overthrow Castro. Tepedino stated AMLASH had strong connections with Cuban intelligence and was probably cooperating with it in various ways. Although AMLASH never mentioned these connections to his CIA case officers, Teledino stated chat AMLASH had mentioned them to him and almost everyone else he had met.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Book V, p. 25 Helms cirected Karamessinis and Angleton to fully cooperate with the desk officer, John Whitten, charged with investigating the assassination. On November 24, Mexico City cabled the names of known contacts of Soviet personnel in Mexico City and AMLASH's name (Rolando Cubela) was included on that list. Nonetheless neither Fitzgerald, Helms, Tom Kor Angleton advised the desk officer of significance of this name.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)