# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10002-10087

RECORDS SERIES:

TRANSCRIPTR

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: R-352

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

TESTIMONY OF SAMUEL HALPERN

DATE: 06/18/75

PAGES: 89

SUBJECTS:

CUBA

ASSASSINATION

CASTRO

MAFIA

SPECIAL GROUP

BISSELL,

LANSDALE, EDWARD

HARVEY

OPERATION MONGOOSE

ZOGBEY

POISON

AMLASH

5412 COMMITTEE

ZRRIFLE

TASK FORCE W

MAHEU, ROBERT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: T

RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

COMMENTS:
Box 245
Folder 9

Date: 09/30/93
Page:2

------------------------------------ [R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED ------------------------------------

NW 50955 DocId:32281927 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

TOP SECRET

1
The Chairman. The hearing will come to order.

2
I would like to ask Mr. Schwarz if he would give us a

3
brief synopsis of what we intend to question our witness

4
about this morning.

5
Mr. Schwarz. The witness this morning will only be a

6
single witness. He is Mr. Samuel Halpern. He was in the

7
Far East, and I have now found out he was involved in the

8
Sukarno moving and some alleged killing of an agent in

9
Tailand, which are collateral matters that we may want to

10
take up with him at the end.

11
But he came back here in the fall of 1961 and was in-

12
structed as assistant to get into the Cuban matter. And

13
he will testify that he was told that they would proceed

14
to overthrow the Castro government, and that there were no

15
holds barred.

16
He will then describe the way in whch they worked

17
with the Special Group.

18
The Chairman. What was Halpern's position?

19
Mr. Schwarz. Halpern's position was as Executive

20
Assistant to Harvey. And Harvey, you will remember, was the

21
man that was actually in charge of the Cuban position.

22
The Chairman. When are we going to get Harvey?

23
Mr. Schwarz. He is coming next Wednesday morning.

24
We are going to get some of this same conflict between

25
the no-holds-barred testimony, which in his mind I guess he

TOP SECRET

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Halpern. Yes, sir.

2 Mr. Schwarz. Who else was present at that meeting?

3 Mr. Halpern. [A Mr. Ghose Zogbey.] He was my branch

4 chief.

5 Mr. Schwarz. Is he alive today, or is he dead?

6 Mr. Halpern. He died last year.

7 Mr. Schwarz. Approximately when in the fall of 1961

8 did that meeting take place?

9 Mr. Halpern. About the middle of October 1961.

10 Mr. Schwarz. What instructions were you given by Mr. Bissell at tht meeting?

11 Mr. Halpern. Mr. Bissell said he had recently -- and he didn't specificy the date or the time -- he had recently

12 been chewed out in the Cabinet Room of the White House by borh the President and the Attorney General for, as he put

13 it, sitting on his ass and not doing anything about getting rid of Castro and the Castro regime. His orders to both

14 [Mr. Zogbey] and to me were to plan for an operation to accomplish that end.

15 Mr. Schwarz. Was any content put into the term "get rid of", or was that the term that was used, and only that term?

16 Mr. Halpern. To the best of my recollection, that was it. There was no limitation of any kind. Nothing was for-

17 bidden, and nothing was withheld. And the objective was to

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

TOP SECRET

1 remove Castro and his regime.

2 Mr. Schwarz. And did you talk about tactics at all

3 in that meeting, or was it just a general discussion about

4 getting organized.

5 Mr. Halpern. Just a general discussion as to what we would

6 do, how we would proceed, and what we would need. And at

7 that point I had no idea how many people were left on the staff

8 in the branch only having been on the job a day or a day and

9 a half.

10 Mr. Schwarz. Shorly after that time did you get put in

11 contact with a general?

12 Mr. Halpern. Yes, sir. General Lansdale.

13 Mr. Schwarz. And what was his function when you were

14 introduced to him?

15 Mr. Halpern. Both Mr. Zogbey and I were introduced

16 to him as the new chief of Operations for a government-wide

17 effort to accomplish the removal of Castro and the Castro

18 regime. This effort was to include not only CIA but the

19 Department of State and the Department of Defense. And

20 General Lansdale was to be the Chief of Operations for that

21 outfit.

22 Mr. Schwarz. And did you brief him about Cuba or did

23 he brief you about the operation, or what was the nature of that?

24 Mr. Halpern. No, we briefed him first in the old

25 Situation Room, what used to called the Ibell Building, which

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Halpern. It wasn't a matter of General Lansdale's
2 being in charge, or the Attorney General being in charge,
3 nobody objected to General Lansdale reporting to the Attorney
4 General.

5 It was a matter of whether this would be done through
6 the normal chain of command, or whether we would actually be
7 under the General's direct command.

8 Mr. Schwarz. But it still is a chracterization, you
9 were dealing with organization and bureaucracy?

10 Mr. Halpern. That is right. And drafting papers.

11 Mr. Schwarz. Drafting papers to do what?

12 Mr. Halpern. To try to get organized in terms of how
13 we would accomplish the objective.

14 Mr. Schwarz. Did any of those papers that you drafted
15 in those early stages include any reference to assassination
16 as a device to accomplish the objective?

17 Mr. Halpern. No, sir.

18 Mr. Schwarz. Now, did Mr. Helms enter the picture in
19 the latter part of December 1961?

20 Mr. Halpern. That is correct.

21 Mr. Schwarz. Describe how he came into the picture.

22 Mr. Halpern. To my knowledge, Mr. Zogbey described to
23 me a meeting he had been at at the Director's morning staff
24 meeting -- this is Mr. McCone's morning staff meeting -- in
25 which Mr. McCone, almost in terms of a bombshell for the

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# TOP SECRET

1 group at the meeting, stated that Mr. Helms would henceforth

2 be -- the words were, his man on Cuba. This was something

3 that nobody in the room apparently had any inkling of, and

4 particularly Mr.Helms, nor Mr Zogbey.

5 The Chairman. May I ask you to repeat that?

6 I am sorry, I just didn't catch it.

7 Mr. Halpern. At a meeting sometime in December 1961,

8 which was the morning staff meeting that the Director held, and

9 Mr Zogbey was present --

10 Mr. Schwarz. But you were not?

11 Mr. Halprrn I was not, I got this from Mr.Zogby --

12 the Director, Mr. McCone, announced that Mr. Helms would be

13 his man on Cuba, Mr. Helms would then be the Chief of Operations

14 for the Deputy Director of Plans, and Mr. Bissell was in the

15 room as the DDP.

16 Mr. Helms had no inkling of this before the meeting,

17 and so stated to Mr. Zogbey, and even asked Mr.Zogby if he had

18 had any inkling before the meeting.

19 Mr Zogbey told me that he had none whatsoever.

20 Mr. Schwarz. Did Mr. Helms then come and visit your

21 new organization and tell you to make some changes?

22 Mr. Halpern. Yes. He came to Mr. Zogbey's office and looked

23 at the list of officers, male and female, who were still

24 working in the branch. Most of them were the remnants of the

25 people from the old Bay of Pigs operation who had not yet been reassigned.

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

TOP SECRET

involved in this operation? That was the first reference I
recall to a female operative.

Mr. Schwarz. There was no such previous evidence.

Mr. Halpern. We had a number of female officers, and
still do, in our branches. And there were some in the Cuban
branch and the Cuban task force.

Senator Huddleston. What types of activities did they
participate in?

Mr. Halpern. Oh, recruting of agents, the handling
of agents, disseminating reports, preparing propaganda guid-
ances, preparing papers for a special group as appropriate,
doing the work of any other officer.

Senator Huddleston. Can you name one or suggest one
that was heavily involved in the assassination attempt?

Mr. Halpern. Oh, I don't know of any in the assassina-
tion attempt per se.

Senator Huddleston. You don't know of any?

Mr. Halpern. No, sir.

Senator Huddleston. Thank you.

The Chairman. Senator Mondale?

Senator Mondale. I am sorry I came in late, Mr. Hal-
pern, and missed some of your testimony. As I came in you
were saying that orders came from somewhere to get off your
ass.

Mr. Halpern. Yes, sir. Mr.Bissell told Mr. Zogbey

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# TOP SECRET

37

1 cers whose objective would be to plan for the overthrow of

2 the Castro regime.

3 Mr. Smothers. Was it your understanding that these

4 plans were to extend to assassination?

5 Mr. Halpern. That word was not used, sir. But no

6 holds were barred, and we had no limitation.

7 Mr. Smothers. Let me ask you it another way. What was

8 your understanding of what Mr. Bissell had been told to do

9 by the President and the Attorney General?

10 Mr. Halpern. To get rid of Castro and the Castro regime

11 on the Island of Cuba.

12 Mr. Smothers. Did Mr. Bissell convey to you the idea

13 that that included killing Castro?

14 Mr. Halpern. The subject never came up per se.

15 Mr. Smothers. What did you come away from that meeting

16 expecting to do?

17 Mr. Halpern. We were very hard put to come upwwith

18 any real ideas. We didn't know what to do, frankly. And we

19 went back -- one thing we both agreed on, both Zogbey and

20 I, is that we were not going to come up with a piece of

21 paper which said this was going to be easy or could be done

22 overnight, or could be done with mirrors.

23 The Chairman. Did you come away after your conversation

24 with Mr. Bissell with the idea that he had instructed you

25 to come up with a plan of some kind designed to overthrow,

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

TOP SECRET

66

later.

The Chairman. I would like to take this and several other questions up with the committee, one of which deals with the question of the August recess. And I want to confer with you on that, too.

How many more questions do you have?

Mr. Schwarz. Instead of asking the other questions I will ask whether he knows anything about them, and we could bring him back later if he does.

Do you know anything about the film made in order to discredit Mr. Sukarno by showing immoral activity on his part?

Mr. Halpern. Yes, sir.

Mr. Schwarz. We will bring you back on that.

The Chairman. Can we get that done now?

Mr. Schwarz. Such a film was made in Hollywood, was it?

Mr. Halpern. I don't know where it was made, sir, but I know it was made.

Mr. Schwarz. It was made in the U.S.?

Mr. Halpern. As far as I know it was.

Mr. Schwarz. And was that done under your direction?

Mr. Halpern. Well, it was done at the Far East Division request, and I was the one who did the negotiating with the Office of Security.

Mr. Schwarz. And was the plan that a film would show!

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

TOP SECRET

1 a model who looked like Mr. Sukarno apurporting to have
2 sexual activity with some female, and that then the film
3 would be released in Indonesia, and it would be attributed to
4 the Russians in some fashion?

5 Mr. Halpern. No, sir, that was not the plan at all.

6 Mr. Schwarz. What was the plan?

7 Mr. Halpern. The plan was to have such a film from
8 which we could make film which we could use in the propaganda
9 activity against Sukarno in terms of him being close to the
10 Russians because the woman was supposed to be the Russian
11 blonde woman that was assigned to Mr. Sukarno as escort
12 officer when he visited the Soviet Union, and then went back
13 and stayed with him for some time in Indonesia.

14 Mr. Schwarz. In short, it was a fake movie which was
15 designed to put Mr. Sukarno in an undesirable light, by
16 showing that he was having relations with some Russian
17 female?

18 Mr. Halpern. And, therefore, in Russian control.

19 Senator Mondale. How was that film supposed to get to
20 Indonesia?

21 Mr. Halpern. It wasn't a film. The original plan was
22 to use clips from it in propaganda leaflets, and pamphlets,
23 and things like that, just pictures from the film.

24 Mr. Schwarz. Who authorized that?

25 Mr. Halpern. Mr. Ulmer, who was then Division Chief.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

_TOP SECRET

68

Mr. Schwarz. Do you know if any higher authority authorized it?

Mr. Halpern. Not offhand, no, sir, personally I don't know.

Mr. Schwarz. And was it done, or was it turned off? I mean, the pictures were taken?

Mr. Halpern. The picture was taken, and that was the end of it.

Mr. Schwarz. And Mr. Maheu was used to accomplish it?

Mr. Halpern. I have no idea whatsoever.

Mr. Schwarz. And were the clips used in Indonesia?

Mr. Halpern. No, they were not.

Mr. Schwarz. Why not?

Mr. Halpern. We didn't have any proper outlets to get it done.

Mr. Schwarz. You had the film, but you had no way to distribute it in Indonesia?

Mr. Halpern. Not the film, but the clips.

Mr. Schwarz. What do you know about the killing of a person called Killum?

Mr. Halpern. The name is brand new to me, sir.

Mr. Schwarz. Do you know anything about the killing of a CIA employee or associate in Thailand in the 1950's?

Mr. Halpern. No, sir.

Mr. Schwarz. Do you know anything about the burial of

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# TOP SECRET

such a person, in which you participated along with a
man called Dennis Fleming and wonencalled Peter Joast?

Mr. Halpern. That I participated? No, sir.

Mr. Schwarz. Do you know anything about the killing
of a CIA operative in Bangkok?

Mr. Halpern. No, sir. I was only in Bangkok, I think, once in my life.

Mr. Schwarz. That doesn't ring a bell at all?

Mr. Halpern. No, sir.

Mr. Schwarz. Do you know about any other killings?

Mr. Halpern. No, sir.

The Chairman. Any other questions?

Senator Schweiker. I just want to say, Mr.Chairman, that I would like to compliment the witness for some very clear and impartial answers, instead of the partial amnesia that we have run into lately.

And I think your kind of candor is very helpful to us in this committee to do the job. And I think it was very refreshing to hear some clear-cut specific recommendations of what did or did not happen. I just want to thank you.

The Chairman. I agree.

Thank you very much.

If there are no further questions, I think that completes the interrogation.

(The witness left the hearing room.)

# TOP SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)