# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10424

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: R1076

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: ELDER, WALTER

TO: MILLER, WILLIAM G.

TITLE :
LETTER/ATTACHMENT

DATE: 09/09/75

PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :
TR TRANSMITTING REQUESTED INFO-DD/O LIAISON CONTACTS-MIAMI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: S

RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/14/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

BOX 361-9

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Box 361-9
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

51076
IX-C-2-H-PI

10/24

SSCI BOX # 361-9
Review Staff: 75/2883
9 September 1975

Mr. William G. Miller
Staff Director
Select Committee To Study Governmental
Operations With Respect To Intelligence
Activitites
Room G-308
Dirksen Senate Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20510

Dear Mr. Miller:

In partial response to paragraph IV, (14) of your
31 July 1975 letter, we enclose for your information a
self-explanatory memorandum which reports certain DD/O
liaison contacts in the Miami area.

Sincerely,

Waet Elder
Walter Elder
Assistant to the Director

Attachment:
As stated

![NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION stamp]

![RECEIVED stamp]

![APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993 CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM AS SANITIZED stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

X1076

28 AUG 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/DDO (Mr. John H. Waller)

SUBJECT: JMWAVE Contacts with State, County and Local Police Organizations and Individuals, 1960-1973

REFERENCE: Mr. Waller's Memorandum to DC/LAD dated 19 August 1975

The following is a list from the Latin America Division of contacts between Station JMWAVE and state, county and local police organizations and individuals in the Miami area between 1960-1973:

1.  State

a. The Department of Public Safety provided the Station with blank Florida drivers licenses when needed for operational purposes by Station officers. These licenses, which were never used as licenses to drive a vehicle, were filled in with aliases and utilized primarily by Station officers as a means of establishing identification under an assumed name with informants such as Cuban exiles living in the Miami area. The Station's point of contact (1962-1966) was a Colonel H. N. Kirkman, Director of Public Safety.

b. The Florida Highway Patrol, which is part of the Department of Public Safety, provided the Station with courtesy cards to facilitate their Agency work which requested Florida highway patrolmen to render assistance to the bearer of the cards. The Station also had access to the Highway Patrol's communication system that could be used in an emergency to establish contact with our officers in various parts of the State of Florida when needed. Major Lee Simmons, Inspector, Florida Highway Patrol, was the Station's point of contact at the time, 1962-1966.

c. The Commissioner of Motor Vehicles in Tallahassee, Florida, furnished the Station with "blocked" automobile license plates for use on Station vehicles. These plates protected Station personnel and installations, since the records for the plates were withdrawn from the issuing offices. Any inquiries made by outsiders would be fruitless.

SECRET

DocId:32202614 Page 3

SEP 10 1975

EZ IMPDET
CL BY 012180


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

-2-

interested in establishing the identity of our officers driving these vehicles (who might be engaged in a clandestine meeting or other operational activity) would be referred to the Commissioner's office, who would then "block" the information from being released. The Divisions records (1962-1966) list Mr. Arch Livingstone as the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles.

2. County

a. The Criminal Intelligence Bureau of the Dade County Sheriff's Department provided the Station with access to other law enforcement agencies at state, county and local levels anywhere in the United States for the purpose of keeping track of Cuban exile movements. Through this office the Station could also arrange to obtain vehicle accident reports. Access to these reports was of particular value when Station Officers, on occasion when driving with alias documentation and involved in an automobile accident, had identified themselves in alias because of the presence of agent personnel in the vehicle. The Criminal Intelligence Bureau also provided the Station with access to Cuban exile police records held at various sub-stations within Made county. At the time (1962-1966) a Lieutenant Leslie J. VanBuskirk was in charge of the Criminal Intelligence Bureau.

b. The Broward County Sheriff's Office provided the Station with identification of owners of automobiles and boats registered by Cuban exiles and other foreigners within the county. No names were recorded as the Station's point of contact in Broward County.

c. The Collier County Sheriff's Office provided information on berthing sites in Naples, Florida. This information was of security value as the Station maintained a major operational berthing site in Naples, and it was necessary to have advance information on over-the-road shipments and logistic movements in the area. Douglas Hendry was listed as the Station's point of contact, 1962-1966.

d. The Monroe County Sheriff's Office provided berthing site information south of Miami down to the Florida Keys. This information was of interest to keep track of Cuban exile boat movements into the Caribbean. Reace Thompson was listed as the Station's point of contact, 1962-1966.


SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

The Station maintained liaison with the City of Miami
Police Department, especially with the Criminal Intelligence
Section and the Detective Division. These offices provided 24
the Station with access to police records on Cuban exiles
living in Miami. The Criminal Intelligence Section (1962-1966) 06,08
was headed by Lt. (Harvard Swilley), a Sergeant (Gow was in charge)
of the Detective Division, and a (Mr.) Demby was chief of the
Communications Division.

Contact (with twenty-six other police departments in Dade
County, including the City of South Miami, Coral Gables, and 24
Miami Beach for operational purposes) was available to the
Station through liaison with other major police departments
in the area.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)