# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10004-10095

RECORDS SERIES:
REPORT
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:
ALLEGED CUBAN PLAN TO ASSASSINATE PRESIDENT OF PANAMA

DATE: 03/17/64
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS:
CUBAN PLOT TO ASSASSANATE PRESIDENT OF PANAMA
PANAMA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: U
RESTRICTIONS: 1A, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/09/94

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
New Orleans, Louisiana
March 17, 1964

# ALLEGED CUBAN PLAN TO
ASSASSINATE PRESIDENT OF PANAMA

At 4:55 PM, March 17, 1964, Orlando Piedra, formerly connected with Federal Police in Cuba and presently residing New Orleans, Louisiana, advised that about one week ago he received information from a source in Cuba whom he considers reliable that Castro is not catisfied with the way things are going in Panama and for that reason plans to have the President of Panama assassinated to create additional uprisings in that country. Piedra advised that he furnished the above information by letter to Colonel Eolivar Ballarino, Chief of the National Guard of Panama whom he has known for years. Piedra declines to identify the source and has no additional information to report.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is the property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

This will confirm information orally furnished Mr. J. J. Kelly, State Department, and Mr. James Murano, Central Intelligence Agency on March 17, 1964, by A. J. Decker of this Bureau. This will also confirm data furnished orally to Colonel Graham E. Schmid, Department of the Aray; Major William Boya, Department of the Air Force; and Mr. Don Gorhan, Department of the Navy, on March 19, 1964, by G. A. Day of this Bureau.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi- nation outside your Committee. Use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person- nel without the express approval of the FBI.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)