2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 7/7/2015

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10125
RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-31

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 03/10/1976
PAGES: 78
SUBJECTS: SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY
COMMITTEE BUSINESS
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Declassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/22/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: CCBOX 324


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Date: 08/07/95
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10125
RECORDS SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-31

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 03/10/76
PAGES : 78
SUBJECTS : SSCSGO, METHODOLOGY
COMMITTEE BUSINESS

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/05/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : CCBOX 324

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

TOP SECRET

Vol. 2 OF 3

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject
to Criminal Sanctions.

The United States Senate

Report of Proceedings

R2829

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Wednesday, March 10, 1976

Washington, D.C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S.E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# TOP SECRET

FOREIGN AND MILITARY SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING

Wednesday, March 10, 1976

United States Senate,

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with Respect to

Intelligence Activities,

Washington, D. C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:45 o'clock
p.m., in Room S-407, the Capitol, the Honorable Walter D.
Huddleston presiding.

Present: Senators Huddleston (presiding), Hart of

Colorado and Mathias.

Staff: William G. Miller, Staff Director, and David

Aaron, Joseph diGenova, Lynn Davis, William Bader, Elizabeth
Culbreath, Charles Kirbow, Rick Inderfurth, Pat Shea, Elliot
Maxwell and Al Quanbeck, Professional Staff Members,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# TOP SECRET

1 And then the question is whether or not there is a prohi-

2 bition on printing in the English language.

3 Mr. Bader. And as I heard the consensus this morning,

4 we would not move to that recommendation for a prohibition.

5 I did_not hear whether on the distribution this would be by

6 law, though I took it it was to be by law, though I can be corrected on that. I don't think we addressed that this morning.

7 Mr. Kirbow. Mr. Chairman, on these that we considered

8 to be rather -- that we have a fairly light record on or that

9 we are not too sure what the future holds, one of the members that I rode over with on the car suggested that perhaps in those instances we could recommend fairly strongly whatever we want the followon people to do to ensure that the recommendation does not create havoc within the Agency or does not leave the rights of citizens unprotected.

10 But that is not a cop out. It is something that you frequently do, say, let us reserve this for the permanent oversight committee or for whatever other group. We may have all the information we need.

11 Senator Huddleston. Let them make the determination whether or not it should be a statute.

12 Mr.Kirbow. Determine whether in the law whether it is working all right under the set of regulations.

13 Mr. Bader. Mr. Chairman, may I say in this instance in the publishing trade there is no lack of record? The evidence


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# TOP SECRET

2

PROCEEDINGS

Senator Huddleston. I call the Committee to order.

Mr. Aaron. I believe Bill Bader had the temerity to summarize where we stand.

Mr. Bader. Mr. Chairman, where I think we are at the moment is taking the three major issues before the Subcommittee in the order they were presented, and discussed this morning, the first being the academic issue, and as I heard the Subcommittee this morning, then I will have another go at the options, give enough options in the option paper and bring it back before the Committee for a further look before we go on.

Senator Huddleston. By Friday.

Mr. Bader. By Friday, without question.

I think by this time we will all have -- we will try to include a positive option, that is to say, to approve if not applaud the expanded efforts of FRD to undertake these activities, or at least to endorse them.

Now, going to the second was the covert use of books and publishing houses. We discussed two recommendations: one which I believe here the Committee has agreed to, and that is a prohibition on the distribution or subsidy of any books, magazines or other publications not attributed to the CIA inside the United States.

Senator Huddleston. I think we can all accept that, can't we.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

TOP SECRET

4

1 and inquiry into it has been thorough, and I think we know this

2 well. There is no dispute from the Agency.

3 Senator Huddleston. Well, is the law inconsistent with

4 the statute on the information service?

5 Mr. Bader. It is the same thing. I would recommend,

6 Mr. Chairman, that this would be by law, by statute.

7 Senator Huddleston. On the publication.

8 Mr. Bader. On the publication.

9 Senator Mathias. I would support that.

10 Senator Huddleston. I think Gary Hart would also, so I

11 think we will make that recommendation, that this one on the

12 academics is the one we are not sure of.

13 Mr. Bader. That's the one we would go forward with, and

14 now we are moving to -- I would also reiterate that in our

15 session the other night, I took it as agreement that the

16 recommendation by statute the CIA should be prohibited from

17 making operational use of all educational and cultural

18 grantees of all U.S. Government sponsored programs, this was the

19 issue which was raised of government funded programs such as

20 the Fulbright program.

21 Senator Huddleston. And that's either already a regulation

22 or a directive or something to that effect.

23 Mr. Aaron. Certain categories.

24 Mr. Bader. Certain categories.

25 Mr. Kirbow. That is brand new ground.

NW 50955 DocId:32423513 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# TOP SECRET

5

1.  Mr. diGenova. The John McCloy exceptions to that rule, they
    are the only ones that are protected.

2.  Mr. Aaron. That justifies Charles' view that there are
    some similarities between Ford Foundation and Government
    sponsored activities.

3.  Mr. Bader. Where our discussion was left before lunch
    was on the question of the covert use of U.S. journalists and
    media institutions, and as it was laid out, it was indicated
    that the CIA's intended internal prohibition on the use of the
    media extended to the internal prohibitions on the use, opera-
    tional use of individuals, American and foreign, who were
    accredited to American media organizations.

4.  As I heard it this morning, what we were discussing and
    moving to was to extend that prohibition to cover all American
    individuals and media organizations, and that the question then
    was whether this would be recommended to be something done in
    law or a recommendation, or an insistence, if you will, to the
    Agency that it further amend its internal directives, its
    50-10, to put all media personnel, American media personnel on
    the prohibited list, and that is I think where we were.

5.  Senator Huddleston. I think that's an accurate statement.
    That's where we were.

6.  I had expressed a thought that I thought that it ought to
    be expanded to include all, but we should hold off on the
    statute business for the time being.

NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

TOP SECRET

1 Senator Mathias. My role here seems to be the Devil's

2 advocate.

3 Senator Huddleston. Good.

4 Senator Mathias. There is no question about the writing

5 American press or the value in print domestically. Maybe the

6 role, any legitimate role that news men could, journalists,

7 writers could fulfill is available through the information

8 agencies, USIA and groups of that sort.

9 So does anybody know whether there is any real need

10 for allowing some latitude, which is not covered by situations

11 that can be envisioned under USIA or other programs?

12 Mr. Kirbow. Well, Senator, the one that I discussed earlier

13 that I probably didn't make my point well because no one

14 seemed to have picked it up, is we do, by the words here, if I

15 understand Mr. Bader, prohibit an American citizen living in

16 Brussels and working for a local newspaper there from having

17 anything to do with the CIA.

18 Senator Huddleston. No we don't, do we?

19 You mean by his extension?...

20 Mr. Kirbow. Yes, sir.

21 Senator Huddleston. But not by --

22 Mr. Kirbow. But wasn't that what you wanted to put in

23 the law, that you didn't know if you wanted --

24 Senator Mathias. This is the point I wanted to raise

25 here.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

TOP SECRET

7

1 Mr. Kirbow. That kind of relationship is something that
2 we should stay away from because I don't see any harm in it,
3 nor do I think the record demonstrates any harm in it. I don't
4 see -- I don't know how in the world this person doing that
5 taints the minds of the American reading public, which is
6 apparently what you are trying -- you're not trying to protect
7 the newsman. You are trying to protect the reader who doesn't
8 know that what he's getting is being spoonfed to him from the
9 CIA, and I don't know why we would be so concerned about
10 protecting newsmen from working, or prohibiting them from
11 working, because I think they have a right to do that as
12 American citizens, just as they do to work with the Department
13 of Defense or any other agency.

14 Mr. Bader. You would then rescind the Agency's standing
15 prohibition?

16 Mr. Kirbow. I just don't think you ever prohibit it in
17 law.

18 Mr. diGenova. Are you talking bout an affiliated,
19 accredited journalist, because that's what the Agency regulation
20 deals with. It doesn't deal with an American citizen. It
21 deals with an accredited person, whether he is a foreign
22 national or an American.

23 Mr. Bader. To an American media organization..

24 Mr. diGenova. But that's not the example Charles gave
25 you.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# TOP SECRET

Mr. Kirbow. Well, perhaps I misunderstand the extension that you, your full recommendation.

Do you want to go beyond where the administration is in their position?

Mr. Bader. I am recommending to go beyond where the Administration is at this stage, to extend the operational prohibition on the part of CIA to use American -- Americans in the media

Mr. Kirbow. Wherever located.

Mr. Bader. Where they are using them undercover, at this stage, to the extent that it is a cover proposition.

Senator Huddleston. Even if they are in foreign media?

Mr. Bader. Yes, sir.

Senator Huddleston. And even though all of their activities are related to foreign; they are not writing for American news services.

Mr. Bader. Alternately, they could be with American media organizations.

Mr. Kirbow. Mr. Chairman, I don't think there is a single shred of evidence on our record that that is in any way wrong- doing or in any way adversely affects the rights of American citizens. Clearly it will prohibit or could prohibit in the future the proper use of an individual that could be essential to the intelligence collection processes of the CIA, and it singles out a specific agency which is not doing any harm to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# TOP SECRET

1 the American citizenry, and says no, you cannot do this because
2 you happen to be a secret organization.

3 Senator Mathias. If I wanted to do it, Charlie, I think
4 I could work out a scheme. I would hire a prominent American
5 columnist to go and live in Paris, as Art Buchwald did, for
6 example.

7 Mr. Kirbow. And to pick off his columns and run them
8 in the New York Times.

9 Senator Mathias. And run them in the Paris Trib first,
10 and then let the domestic press pick him up...

11 Mr. Kirbow. But if he's in the Paris Trib, that's an affiliated U.S.

13 Mr. Aaron. Well, suppose he writes for the Financial
14 Times?

15 Senator Mathias. Well, you could work out an echo program
16 if you wanted.

17 Senator Huddleston. Well, the basic point, instead
18 of picking instances, it seems to me, is whether or not as an
19 official policy of the United States Government we want an
20 institution such as the press with all it means and all it is
21 supposed to be in American with its constitutional provisions and
22 whatever, to be subverted to the secret, clandestine operation
23 that it can; Anytime we put any prohibition anywhere, we are
24 eliminating somebody as a potential agent. You can't use
25 that as a guideline.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

TOP SECRET

10

Mr. Kirbow. These people are not necessarily subverted.

Senator Huddleston. I'm talking about the institution of the free press being subverted, not the individual.

Mr. Kirbow. I'll extend that one further. I don't see how using them for cover, which has no direct effect, like the example I guess you gave, Senator, of a vice president of a bureau of some sort who has nothing to do with the writing or editing or anything; he is the business head of the operation just like any other corporation. This thing extends to that.

Senator Huddleston. He may have something do with the selection of the people who do write.

Mr. Kirbow. Well, if you could give us an abuse that we are trying to correct, or some reason for it?

Mr. Bader. It's not a question of abuse, it's a question of the use, the operational use of an institution such as the press for operational purposes.

Mr. Kirbow. Well, explain then, and perhaps I'm going -- explain the sanctity of the press if it is not to protect an uninformed reader from having his mind tainted by the relation-ship. What is the sanctity of the press as an organization?

It is not sanctity like the church and state. I just don't see the record for this.

Senator Huddleston. Well, the clergy and the press I think are institutions.

Mr. Kirbow. Well, I think the clergy and maybe the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# TOP SECRET

1 academic, like you say, that teaches the student directly,
2 but a businessman who happens to have elected going into the
3 business of running a newspaper or a magazine, to be singled
4 out and say you as a patriotic American are proscribed against
5 doing any business, and if you are going to do it with an agency,
6 you should do it with the whole United States Government. I
7 don't see how we can single out the CIA and not single out
8 military or FBI.

9 Mr. Aaron. Well, I think the domestic group will have --
10 may well have some recommendations regarding the FBI's covert
11 use of American media.

12 Mr. Kirbow. Well, domestic media, obviously.

13 Mr. Aaron. I would like to say, to take Charles'
14 example of an American working for a foreign press, and what
15 the problem is. I think the problem is that you have two
16 kinds of problems with the press. One is the fact, if it is
17 operating domestically, if it is working for American media
18 institutions, it is clear that they are subject to some
19 manipulation or at least questionable manipulation, and there
20 are issues in people's minds as to its integrity.

21 Now, the question goes beyond that to what about people
22 who might be working for some foreign -- American journalists,
23 American writers or what have you, working for foreign media
24 institutions. There you have a somewhat more extended
25 situation. But it seems to me that what you have is the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

TOP SECRET

12

1 possibility of the American press getting discredited, having

2 problems of being able to perform its normal functions in the

3 world and performing in the United States because it is part

4 of a clandestine intelligence organization.

5 Mr. Kirbow. Don't you think that's an individual right

6 that a person has the right to exercise both ways, instead of

7 one way?

8 Mr. Aaron. Charles, what I think I have told the

9 Committee, I have a real problem with the concept of the

10 American people having the right to spy, somehow, and these

11 prohibitions don't go to what people are allowed to do on

12 the outset. They go to what the Government is allowed to do.

13 Mr. Maxwell. Well, let's take a different kind of

14 example.

15 What would happen if in some way and it's not, I think,

16 impossible to imagine -- an American citizen was writing full

17 time for the Communist Party paper in Italy or Portugal or

18 France.

19 Now, that obviously would be covered by the example that

20 Bill has provided as a prohibition.

21 There are two questions. One is whether the person has

22 any real operational use that you want to preserve, and second,

23 whether it goes to the question that David presents, which is

24 the possible contamination of the American press, which seems

25 a difficult extension in that example, as well as the possibility


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

TOP SECRET

1 of distortion, the flowback problem in America.

2 And the second problem seems to be, with an example like

3 that, is that it seems to -- there is very little stock in the

4 argument, because the argument about distortion of what goes

5 on in foreign countries and people's perceptions is at the heart

6 of the question of whether the CIA or any government agency

7 should be engaged in- propaganda, because it is quite possible

8 the propaganda gets picked up in the same way, and the question

9 is obviously of line drawing: how do you want to draw the

10 line.

11 It strikes me that there may be better ways to draw the

12 line than the suggested prohibition that Bill has for any

13 American, regardless of status, or who they write for or what they are doing.

14 Mr. Kirbow. By having citizenship as an American --

15 Mr. Bader. Well, you misunderstood me. I was putting out

16 the various possibilities.

17 Let's turn to the text for just a moment and maybe that

18 will help.

19 First turn to 61. Let's try to get some idea of what the

20 problem is before we get to the semantics of it. All right,

21 just let me go through this, then we'll see what is actually

22 being recommended here.

23 I have confused you, obviously, by giving a series of

24 possibilities, not what the recommendations are.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

TOP SECRET

14

"Ten U.S. news organizations and five U.S. publishing houses provide cover for CIA agents abroad. Four of the organizations do not know that they provide this cover."

Then there are some examples.

Mr. Kirbow. Meaning management or individual?

Mr. Bader. Management.

Mr. Kirbow. At any level.

Mr. Bader. At any level.

Mr. Kirbow. All right.

Mr. Bader. Then there are some examples of the kinds of relationships that the CIA officer engages in intelligence

collection under cover as a roving international news correspondent, a CIA officer under cover as a European representative of an American company while working as a stringer for a United States publication engages in intelligence collection and covert action. In this case the company is aware of the CIA relationship while the publication is not. Bona fide journalists who regularly provide the CIA with intelligence, some are paid regularly while others are not. In one case the journalist is apparently not aware that the U.S. embassy official to whom he is providing information is actually a CIA officer.

Now, what the recommendation here on 64, or the bracketed recommendations -- and I'm sorry I created this situation by giving various options -- by statute the CIA should be


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# TOP SECRET

1 prohibited from using American media organizations for

2 cover. That is the extent of it.

3 What is the trouble, Joe?

4 Mr. diGenova. That seems to be somewhat -- that seems

5 to be a back-off from what the Agency prohibits as well. I mean

6 do you want to make a recommendation saying that the Agency's

7 prohibition against using Americans who are accredited --

8 Mr. Bader. No.

9 This is the additive. The recommendation here is to

10 take the Agency's prohibitions which go to the question of,

11 American and foreign journalists, accredited to American

12 media organizations, and extend it to what is not covered under

13 those prohibitions, which is the use of these American media

14 organizations for cover purposes.

15 Mr. Maxwell. Is it clear that people who are in media

16 organizations are not accredited to those organizations?

17 Mr. Aaron. If they were, then they would be covered.

18 If they are accredited journalists, then they would not.

19 Mr. Maxwell. So the issue is whether individuals who

20 don't write --

21 Mr. Aaron. But may edit.

22 Mr. Maxwell. But may edit.

23 Ms. Culbreath. Or may type it up.

24 Mr. Aaron. Or may type it up.

25 Mr. Kirbow. Well, is this the same point that we're


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

TOP SECRET 16

1 talking about less than 25 people, where you are going to make
2 a statutory prohibition against use of all people in that
3 category because on page 61 it says, "of the 65 Americans
4 employed by the CIA in the media field, only a little over
5 one third are journalists; another third are CIA agents operat-
6 ing under media cover, and the remaining individuals are either
7 employed as CIA media proprietaries abroad or are propaganda
8 writers and consultants."
9 So we are really talking about making a major prohibition
10 against a segment of our society where at the present time there
11 is less than 25 people who have any direct contact with the
12 reading mind, apparently.

13 Senator Hart of Colordado. I think, Charlie, it's called
14 a principle. If it was only one person, you've still got the
15 problem. I don't think it is the quantity.
16 Ms. Davis. Bill, in your examples on 61, the first one
17 at the bottom, would that now be covered under your prohibition?
18 CIA officer engages in intelligence collection under cover as a
19 roving international news correspondent?
20 Mr. Bader. I can't remember from the text here whether
21 the man is accredited or not.
22 If he is accredited, it would be covered.
23 Ms. Davis. If not, he is not additionally covered by your
24 prohibition.
25 Senator Huddleston. This does not extend to the example

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32423513 Page 19


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

TOP SECRET

17

1 that you gave, Charlie.

2 Mr. Kirbow. No, sir, it doesn't here.

3 Mr. Bader. Only if he is affiliated with that group.

4 Mr. Kirbow. His affiliation covers anybody who is an

5 American citizen is forever and hereafter would be prohibited, if

6 it goes into the statute, from dealing.

7 Mr. diGenova. That's only one of the possibilities.

8 Mr. Kirbow. That's one of those recommendations based

9 on investigation.

10 Mr. Bader. I wasn't recommending that. I was saying that

11 was one of the possibilities of the whole list.

12 Senator Huddleston. But the recommendation at the top

13 of 64 doesn't cover an American citizen who is using the

14 foreign media as cover.

15 Mr. Bader. This would not cover an American citizen who

16 is, let's say, is working for Stompe, or Le Monde, and who is

17 not accredited, and at the same time is not accredited to

18 an American media organization.

19 It does not cover an American citizen who is a stringer to

20 a Latin American newspaper unless he is accredited to an American

21 media organization.

22 Mr. Kirbow. Let me try one more time, then, to state the

23 position of not Senator Tower in this case, but another Senator,

24 as I indicated, spoke to me on this very subject,and indicate

25 to you that we not do to harm or to prevent the use by the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

TOP SECRET

18

1 agency of certain people unless in some way that use affects

2 the rights and/or in some vague way affects the mental processes

3 to the detriment of the American citizenry, that we don't

4 concern ourselves with passing laws to protect the person who

5 reads something that these people do. If you do this, you open

6 that can of worms which gets you into a prohibition against any

7 work in the press or elsewhere in a propaganda fashion.

8 Now, the Committee may decide that propaganda is in fact

9 something that we should prohibit by law, but doing this

10 piecemeal like this, it does just exactly that. I see nothing

11 in our record that indicates that the use of certain of these

12 people overseas or for cover in any way -- there is not

13 any evidence that it has adversely affected the rights of the

14 citizens of the United States. There is a potential for

15 abuse in practically anything secret and covert.

16 Senator Huddleston. I don't believe the recommendation

17 at the top of page 64 violates what you have just said.

18 Mr. Maxwell. I would not think that --

19 Mr. Kirbow.. Well, it says, Mr. Chairman, that by statute,

20 by statute, which means by law, the CIA should be prohibited

21 from using American media organizations for cover. We apparently

22 have 65 people, a portion of which are being used for cover,

23 and apparently they consider them to be an essential asset, or

24 they wouldn't be using them.

25 Is that correct, Mr. Bader?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# TOP SECRET

19

1 Mr. Bader. The CIA?

2 Mr. Kirbow. Yes.

3 Mr. Bader. I would assume that they would have extended
4 their prohibition to this, or on the other hand one could argue
5 I don't know what their motives were. It could have been they
:
6 felt that this, the first step they took was the one that was
7 dealing with what the public was demanding.

8 Mr. Kirbow. Well, I really don't see anything in our
9 record or any evidence that they have given us or anything
10 other than a staff position on this which we are trying to
|
11 sell the Committee that this is a harmful procedure.

12 Senator Huddleston. What this does is extends beyond
13 the practice of journalists to any other person, be it an
14 executive or clerk or typist or whatever, on the assumption
15 that you can't be a little bit pregnant. If the agency is
16 going to be subverted anywhere, not the agency, if the insti-
17 tution of the press is, that it is going to be subverted.

18 Mr. Bader. Mr. Chairman, the Agency has accepted the
19 basic principle, because it has removed from its list of
20 operational assets a rather larger number than this would
21 call for.

22 Mr. Kirbow. But if I hear correctly what you are saying
23 then, we are out to protect the American media from being made
:
24 pregnant by the CIA and not worrying at all about the reading
25 public or the other, but just the media.

NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 22


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# TOP SECRET

Senator Huddleston. The assumption is if the media of the press is subverted, that it will affect the citizens, or they will suffer.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Mr. Chairman, in the interest of expedition, I move the passage of these three recommendations.

Senator Huddleston. All right. Let's see what the three are.

Mr. Aaron. Well, let me summarize the first one. I think we have agreed the first is that the prohibition on distribu- tion of CIA funded, supported, subsidized and so forth, that that be prohibited within the United States.

Mr. Inderfurth. Printed.

Mr. Kirbow. Excuse me. Not printed.

Mr. Aaron. The word "printed" dropped out for the following reason. One, it makes it easier to prohibit the distribution if you don't identify where the printing is taking place, and secondly, while there is no printing going on here, the question really goes to distribution. I think that was the concurrence of the Committee.

The second point is that the prohibitions of that the Agency now has upon itself, be made law.

Mr. diGenova. On the use of media personnel and institutions?

Mr. Aaron. On the use of media personnel and institutions, and the third point is that it be extended to say by statute


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

TOP SECRET

21

1 the CIA should be prohibited from using American media organiza-

2 tions for cover.

3 Senator Huddleston. Well, the style of this ought to

4 be changed, it seems to me, because one of the recommendations,

5 instead of listed under recommendations, is the last paragraph

6 on 63, is that correct?

7 Mr. Aaron. Yes, that would be picked up as a recommenda-

8 tion, that is correct.

9 Mr. diGenova. Plus the other one, which is not on 64.

10 Mr. Aaron. Well, the one on 64, the bottom one comes out.

11 Senator Huddleston. Right.

12 Senator Mathias. Before you leave that, as a matter of

13 record, I am requested to note an exception on behalf of

14 minority.

15 Mr. Aaron. The second section was the covert use of

16 American clergy and laity. This is on Page 64.

17 Senator Huddleston. Was that included in your motion?

18 Senator Hart of Colorado. No.

19 Mr. Aaron. I think that covers the recommendation.

20 Mr. Maxwell. They hadn't discussed whether it

21 should be made public.

22 Senator Huddleston. Well, if it becomes a statute, it

23 becomes public .

24 Mr. Inderfurth. But the statute will remain secret.

25 Mr. Aaron. No, we are ready to move on it, to covert


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# TOP SECRET

22

1 use of American clergy and laity.

2 Senator Huddleston. Well, the covert action is

3 with the noted exception, those recommendations go before

4 the Committee.

5 Senator Hart of Colorado. Just for clarification, Mac, is

6 that the entire minority or what?

7 Senator Mathias. No, it's only one member.

8 Senator Huddleston. Now we are ready to deal with the

9 clergy.

10 Mr. Aaron. The point here is, I think, the CIA takes

11 the position that it has no covert arrangements with American

12 clergy and laity, and that this will continue as policy, but

13 they have relationship of a clandestine character which don't

14 involve remuneration.

15 Senator Huddleston. Incidentally, is that a new policy?

16 Mr. Bader. Yes, as of February 10, 1976.

17 Mr. Aaron. It's pretty short. This is the sum total of

18 our findings, and it explains it better than I can.

19 Mr. Bader. This has not been, obviously you can see,

20 Senator and members of the Committee, from the text that the

21 Committee has found the CIA has a total of 14 covert arrangements

22 involving direct operational use of 21, that should be religious

23 persons, and I found it very difficult in this to properly or

24 respectively address the category here, whether they are American

25 clergy, regligious persons, or what. It is a term of art I


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

TOP SECRET                                                                                                 23

1   really haven't quite been able to deal with.

2   As of February 10th, the CIA announced that the CIA has

3   not secret paid or contractual relationships with an American

4   clergyman or missionary. This practice will be continued as a

5   matter of policy.

6   Senator Huddleston. I think we ought to clarify that

7   religious persons. That would include Chuck Colson.

8   Mr. Bader. The issue here is, we are saying in the first

9   instance, we welcome this policy which they intend to put into

10  their operational prohibitions, and the recommendation that

11  we bring to you is a very simple one, in addition to that is

12  that it be extended from contractual to all operational relation-

13  ships, paid and unpaid.

14  Senator Huddleston. By statute.

15  Mr. Bader. By statute.

16  Mr. Inderfurth. May I ask a question here?

17  How does this conform to Senator Hatfield's bill on this?

18  Mr. Bader. I don't know.

19  Mr.Inderfurth. I don't know. I'll get a copy of it,

20  but I think to the degree possible, if the committee

21  recommends by statute a prohibition, it should be made to conform

22  to that because he has put in a great deal of work on that, or

23  without knowing the facts, I might add.

24  Mr. Kirbow. The other thing is the Committee may want

25  to support legislation that is already pending.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# TOP SECRET

Mr. Maxwell. What is the nature of the covert relationship with religious persons now in effect?

Senator Mathias. A few patriotic volunteers.

Mr. Bader. Patriotic volunteers, at least one of them, from the operational records.

I think, too, they have what is called a memorandum of agreement which is not contractual in the sense that it involves paid or unpaid.

Mr. Maxwell. What are they doing?

Mr. Bader. They collect intelligence information.

Mr. Kirbow. What is a religious person, Mr. Bader, as they use it or as you use it here?

Would that mean the organ player that is a civilian who travels with a preacher and plays the organ?

Mr. Bader. No. It is intended to be the American clergy, although I certainly would lean on whoever can tell me what a proper term is to define American clergy.

Senator Mathias. What about this fellow around, Maharaja Rani?

Senator Huddleston. I'll think on your defintion.

Mr. Bader. I think we'll have to have a footnote as to what American clergy may be.

Mr. diGenova. American clergy or missionaries, certainly.

Senator Huddleston. Well, missionary gets a little fuzzy.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

TOP SECRET                                                                    25

Mr. Bader. The Agency uses "American clergy or missionary.'

Senator Huddleston. It has to be a person whose primary occupation is for a religious order or sect or something, it seems to me.

Mr. Kirbow. How about the Mormon youth who do their things overseas?

Would this take care of them and prevent them from getting gobbled up?

Senator Huddleston. I think that's a good question. They receive no pay.

Mr. Kirbow. They are not church people, per se. It is part of their religion, doing the service. You see, this gets tobe a rather broad extension, or you leave out certain things if you are not careful with your definition.

Senator Huddleston. I think there may be somewhere in our litany a definition. I am not sure.

Mr. Inderfurth. I would imagine that Senator Hatfield's bill, a definition of what clergy -- that would be spelled out.

There are copies coming over now.

Mr. Bader. Well, I think maybe we will get a copy of the definition of clergy or missionary. Maybe that will clear that up.

Senator Huddleston. Well, I think, you know, some churches send people over for a very short period of time. They are lay people, really, but while they are there, they are


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# TOP SECRET
26

there more or less under the auspices of the church group.

Mr. Kirbow. At least a local church frequently sponsored them.

Senator Huddleston. I don't think you can prohibit all those kinds of people. I think some kind of definition should include the primary occupation of clergy, clergy itself.

Senator Mathias. Well, why don't we commit to staff for the moment the question of definition?

Senator Huddleston. I think we will have to do that.

Okay. Are we ready to move on that?

Mr. Aaron. The recommendation is that whomever or however we define them -- and that's obviously an important question, that they either be prohibited by statute. The other alternative is to simply prohibit any further or recommend the prohibition of any further CIA recruitment in this field.

Ms. Culbreath. The way this is worded, this would get anybody who is a lay member of a church. You have got recruitments of American clergy or laity.

If I am a member of the Methodist church, I am in the laity of the church.

Mr. Miller. You have raised a question. There are people who are not priests in the religious hierarchy in a particular sect who may devote their entire lives to that particular church.

Senator Mathias. Well, I think the word "a religious"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

TOP SECRET

27

1 I'm serious here -- should be considered.

2 Mr. Aaron. "A religious?"

3 Mr. Bader. We'll have to obviously work on that. Laity

4 was not meant here to be a member of a church, for technical

5 terms, the technical terms Mr. Miller mentioned.

6 Mr. Miller. As distinct from the congregation, it was

7 meant to deal with the administrators in a religious order.

8 Senator Huddleston. Well, some sects have lay preachers and

9 lay clergy.

10 Mr. Kirbow. Senator Hart, do you want each of these

11 categories like this examined in the light of the constitutional

12 question that you raised earlier?

13 Senator Hart of Colorado. I just raised the issue where

14 the academics were concerned to resolve it, so I'm sure it

15 should be raised by somebody.

16 Senator Huddleston. Are you ready to go on the religious

17 insofar as what is the definition? Then that will be --

18 Senator Hart of Colorado. Yes, sir.

19 Senator Huddleston. Then that will be moved up, I assume,

20 with exceptions noted?

21 Mr. Kirbow. I don't have any exception to that one, sir.

22 Mr. Inderfurth. That is by statute, right?

23 Senator Huddleston. Pardon?

24 Mr. Inderfurth. Is that by statute?

25 Senator Huddleston. Right.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

TOP SECRET

Mr. Maxwell. There may be a First Amendment argument here, particularly in fundamentalist groups whose religious beliefs are committed, are directed toward opposition toward Godless atheism.

Mr. diGenova. Except that the control of religious organization has historically been subject to governmental regulation in this sense: the Supreme Court in light of Senator Hart's question last night, I did a little bit of research. The example, the prime example of regulation doesn't deal so much with prohibition of the Government dealing with someone, although there are vast areas where the government is not permitted to get into. The question is, for years the Supreme Court has ruled that there are certain health regulations of states that religious sects must comply with, and they have to comply with it even if it conflicts with their basic religious belief, that they have to comply with it, like quarantines or things of that nature.

So there is clearly an area where the First Amendment of religious freedom concept falls in the face of a greater good, the need of the general public, and that has generally been in the health area, where there is some practice of the religion which conflicts with some standard which has been set in the community at large, and that generally has dealt with health.

Mr. Kirbow. Maybe the HEW Act can bring the CIA under one


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

TOP SECRET

29

1. of these health threats.

2 Mr. diGenova. Self-immolation.

3 Senator Huddleston. The snake acts and innoculations.

4 Mr. diGenova. That's exactly right.

5 Mr. Maxwell. The problem is that's not quite applicable

6 to this, and one has to argue in the past the Court has ruled

7 on things that are found to be a threat to the personal liveli-

8 hood or health of the individual rather than something that

9 could be construed in a fundamentalist sense.

10 Senator Huddleston. This doesn't preclude a sect that

11 may be anti-atheist and as such anti-Communist from pursuing

12 its principles, but the restriction would be pursing them through

13 a government agency, which happens to be the CIA, or any other

14 methods.

15 Ms. Culbreath. Would this prohibit, then, somebody who was

16 a member of one of these sects that was in an area where they

17 gained information that would be helpful from them being sources?

18 Senator Huddleston. I wouldn't think so if they wanted

19 to write letters to the CIA.

20 Ms. Culbreath. Well, just in terms of the debriefing kind

21 of thing, or contact.

22 Ms. Davis. We are talking about operational, not coming

23 in to the Domestic Contact Service.

24 Mr. diGenova. It is not very clear on this.

25 Mr. Maxwell. The problem in part goes back to the difficult:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

TOP SECRET                                                30

1 we had with the Domestic Contact Division in trying to determine
2 what was operational support, if operational support would be
3 what did you learn about individuals there who might be
4 receptive to American approaches. Then the clergy would be
5 prohibited from providing that kind of information if that
6 is operational support.

7 Senator Mathias. Well, it seems to me if the religious
8 came in and said I was at a meeting of the Holy Rollers last night
9 and we all went down on the mourner's bench, and I heard the
10 most remarkable things, and this is what I heard, there would
11 be no prohibition against listening. Now, if you say, go pack
12 to the Holy Rollers tonight --

13 Mr. Kirbow. And listen again.

14 Senator Mathias. Then you've got a question.

15 Senator Huddleston. Then it is operational.

16 I_don't think there's a need to write in that it doesn't
17 pertain to the voluntary furnishing of information. I don't know.

18 Mr. Aaron. I don't think -- no, that's really not an
19 operational use, quite frankly. It's very similar to the DCD
20 which takes information from lots of people, including people
21 who are and have been for some time proscribed by CIA's own --

22 Senator Huddleston. Well, anyway, that would be worked
23 out in the statute itself.

24 Mr. Aaron. We are spared the problem.

NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 33


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

TOP SECRET                                                                         31

Senator Huddleston. We ought to move on.

Mr. Aaron. The next section is proprietaries and cover.

Senator Huddleston. I just wonder if in presenting this, these three, these four, now, that we have just approved, it would be of any value to assert in our report that we recognize that the Agency has to find proper cover for its agents, that restricting that cover is a matter of some importance, but there are certain institutions that the Committee feels because of their nature and because of their standing in the country, and because of the need for the public to have confidence in them, that they should be, in effect, off limits, and because of that we recommend that these four recommendations be brought. I don't know whether you want to make it sound any better a not.

Senator Hart of Colorado. Mr. Chairman, does the absence of brackets on the next set of recommendations mean that they are non-controversial?

Senator Huddleston. On the proprietaries?

Senator Hart of Colorado. Yes.

Mr. Aaron. That is correct.

Senator Huddleston. The gentleman did such a great job that nobody can question them.

Mr. Aaron. I think there is only one set of brackets, and the next section is on page 67 in which it says that --

Mr. diGenova. Oh, yes, there is something.

NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 34.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

TOP SECRET

32

Mr. Kirbow. What page are you on?

Mr. diGenova. 67.

At the bottom of page 67 is a bracketed quote about
Admiral Raborn, a former Director of Central Intelligence.

Now, if my memory serves me correctly -- now, first of all,
this is the first time that anyone is mentioned by name in the
findings.

Senator Huddleston. And the total findings are in that
section.

Mr. Kirbow. The findings are this foreign and military.

Senator Huddleston. We referred to Helms and Laird, but
I think we decided we could write around that.

Mr. diGenova. Well, here's what happened here. This
paragraph deals with the fact that when the Agency disposes or
dissolves a proprietary, it tries to avoid conflicts of interest.

However, when noted that sometimes pressures were brought
to bear on the Agency to dispose of the entity as a favor to
someone, so that it would benefit someone else.

Now, the most glaring example of this was this activity
of the former Director, Admiral Raborn, who actually became
involved in negotiations on behalf of a client, Overseas
National Airways, which he represented, and he wanted the sale
of Southern Air Transport, which was a CIA proprietary, large
assets and large property, to Overseas National Airways, which
of course would have acquired Southern Air Transport's lucrative

NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 35


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

33

1 routes.

2 Now, the way I originally had it written was "A former
3 Director of the Central Intelligence Agency sought unsuccess-
4 fully to influence the sale." However, if it was left that way,
5 people would have to guess at which one of these guys did this
6 and it would unfairly impugn all of the directors. The name
7 was inserted. Therefore, the question now becomes whether it
8 should be left in at all since the name is inserted, and since
9 the name is mentioned in the report, and whether or not the
10 whole sentence--

11 Senator Hart of Colorado. Well, what if we just said "A
12 former Director"?

13 Mr. diGenova. Well, the problem there, Senator, is then
14 people say, which one was it?

15 Senator Hart of Colorado. Good.

16 Mr. diGenova. Oh, all right.

17 Mr. Inderfurth. I think the assumption would be Richard
18 Helms.

19 Mr. diGenova. McCone more than Helms.

20 Senator Hart of Colorado. Well, we ran into this last
21 summer with the Exener matter and all like that.

22 Ms. Culbreath. A former person.

23 Mr. diGenova. The Agency itself cited this as the most
24 flagrant example of intercession on behalf of anyone. As a
25 matter of fact, the memorandums on this refer to dozens of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

TOP SECRET 34

1 phone calls and overtures, and it is a former Director trying to
2 gain a benefit. It is an unseemly situation, and they labeled
3 it as a conflict of interest which they sought to avoid, and
4 in fact they did, and they are praised for it in the report
5 because they were really under tremendous pressure.

6 So I have no feeling one way or the other. I think to
7 leave out his name unfairly impugns the other. To leave it in,
8 also, is only the second time in the whole findings and conclusions
9 that we mention anybody's name, so I don't care.

10 Senator Huddleston. And you've got one, Recommendation
11 No. 5, related to the disposal of the proprietaries, that the
12 Justice Department approve?

13 Mr. diGenova. Be consulted on the disposition.

14 Mr. Kirbow. Mr. Chairman, can I be heard on that?

15 Senator Huddleston. Yes, sir.

16 Mr. Kirbow. Senator Hart, in this regard we have consistently
17 attempted by most every reasonable means to not use the names
18 of people unless they had committed something illegal.

19 Senator Hart of Colorado. Well, don't side with me. I'm
20 not taking a position.

21 Mr. Kirbow. But the Exener thing was a big example, but
22 we must have had 20 other names that we went through on that
23 assassination, and we wrote around them.

24 Senator Hart of Colorado. But a number of people argued
25 strongly that we ought to name her and go into details, so I

TOP SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32423513 Page 37


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

TOP SECRET
35
1 suppose the same arguments could be used here on this matter.

2 Mr. Kirbow. But the point I raised at the staff meeting
3 just before the Committee came back, when the subject was
4 raised, was did Admiral Raborn, as a retired military officer,
5 currently in a civilian status, although he was former -- break
6 any American law, or had they sold it to this, would it have
7 been a violation of the law, and the answer was no..

8 If he was involved -- or they knew of no law that he
9 had violated, and none is apparently cited in the record.
10 Pressure was brought to bear, there is no doubt about it, by
11 Admiral Raborn. I think there's another example. I'm not
12 sure whether Joe described it to me or someone else, of a
13 very senior official out there dealing back with the Agency.

14 Now, the military, as Senator Hart knows, is prohibited
15 from this by regulations and I think by law. I know that as a
16 regular military officer, you are not allowed to do contractual
17 business with your agency forever, but with the other military
18 departments and the Department of Defense, I think you have to
19 have a cleansing period of five to seven years.

20 I don't believe there is any such provision in the Act
21 that applies to former Directors, and probably what the Committee
22 should do is consider this action without necessarily naming
23 him unless he was in violation of some really serious
24 wrongdoing, and make a prohibition, drawn similarly, with what
25 now applies to senior officials going back and kind of exerting
![TAD RPPP]
NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 38


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

TOP SECRET 36

1 undue influence on those people.

2 Senator Huddleston. Joe, is it accurate to say that

3 pressures were often brought to bear?

4 Mr. diGenova. We changed that to say sometimes. This is
5 a rewrite. Someone else wrote this after I had submitted it,
6 and we had a meeting today, and we changed several things in
7 there.

8 So I leave it up to the Committee. This was a matter that

9 I -- I wanted to flag it and leave it there. The explanation
10 is as clear as I can give it.

11 Mr. Inderfurth. This is the first time he is mentioned
12 in the entire paper.

13 Mr. diGenova. That's right.

14 Senator Huddleston. Why don't we delete that sentence and
15 keep it in our full report, our big report.

16 Mr. Kirbow. There is a major classified report on
17 this that would contain all the facts.

18 Senator Huddleston. I am concerned now whether any other
19 instances of someone may be, of similar standing as Admiral
20 Raborn.

21 Mr. diGenova. Yes. There are instances in the record
22 which do not deal with proprietaries, of John McCone interceding
23 on behalf of Pan American directly with the Director of
24 Central Intelligence, and it is not mentioned in the report,
25 and it should be, and it is a problem that we have had, Mr.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

TOP SECRET

37

1 Chairman, has been that the work involving the relationship of
2 the Central Intelligence Agency with American business companies
3 was severed off from the proprietary work for the simple
4 reason that they are not the same thing.
5 That work has been done. It has not been pursued vigorous-
6 ly, not because the individual who was responsible for it
7 didn't want to.
8 Senator Huddleston. That happened after he left.
9 Mr. diGenova. That's right, after Mr. McCone left the
10 DCI, he had frequent contacts, according to the records, with
11 the Agency, with high level Agency personnel, and in one instance
12 he interceded personally with the Director of Central Intelli-
13 gence to avoid actions which would be taken by another govern-
14 ment and its airline which would adversely affect Pan American
15 World Airways.
16 Senator Huddleston. It is hard to separate a man from his
17 past totally.
18 Mr. diGenova. It seems particularly hard with DCIs.
19 Mr. Kirbow. Well, not only here, this is not with the
20 Agency, but it came up in my experience with the Armed Services
21 Committee involving Continental Airlines.
22 Senator Mathias. This sentence.
23 Senator Huddleston. Just the sentence in brackets.
24 Senator Mathias. Well, I think if you've got a Raborn Case
25 a McCone Case and whatnot, that you can't make fish of one and


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

TOP SECRET
38

1 fowl of the other.

2 Senator Huddleston. I think we've already said that
3 pressures sometimes were brought to bear and we make recommenda-
4 tions to correct that.

5 Ms. Culbreath. Mr. Chairman, could I suggest that maybe if
6 we do delete that, that we perhaps redo that previous sentence
7 to make it a little stronger, and perhaps in some way
8 indicate that these were serious pressures, and they were, I
9 think, hard pressures to withstand when somebody in that kind
10 of position --

11 Senator Huddleston. They were withstood, though.

12 Mr. Maxwell. They would get lost the way the sentence is
13 cut.

14 Mr. diGenova. I think what we will do is David and I
15 will get together, and Elizabeth, and we will change this
16 "however" sentence, the sentence that precedes the one that
17 has just been deleted, and we will expand that sentence to
18 more accurately explain that the pressures came from high sources
19 sometimes. Some of them may have been maybe former Agency
20 directors.

21 Senator Huddleston. I think we should make the point that
22 it was former.

23 Senator Mathias. Well, if they were former directors,
24 then you may as well leave in the last sentence.

25 Mr. diGenova. Maybe.

TAP REPDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

TOP SECRET

39

Mr. Kirbow. Mr. Chairman, may I suggest that maybe perhaps we use this type of part of the investigation and what we know from certain of the other files to prohibit this type of conduct by law in the future in our general recommendations?

Senator Huddleston. And make it similar to --

Mr. Kirbow. Similar. I think you would have to look at something from the staff.

Mr. diGenova. I didn't have that recommendation in there, but I think the record indicates it ought to be there.

Mr. Kirbow. It wouldn't be proper, necessarily, to put it right here under proprietaries, but let's put it in the general recommendations.

Mr. diGenova. David, did you get that?

Mr. Aaron. I'm sorry.

There's a recommendation that --

Mr. diGenova. That Agency personnel --

Mr. Kirbow. Senior officials.

Senator Huddleston.. Similar to what applies now for military.

Mr. Maxwell. Well, perhaps the statute, perhaps we could recommend a statute similar to that governing the Department of Defense.

Mr. Kirbow. Be enacted by the next Committee, similar in effect to.

Senator Huddleston. And find a proper place to put it in


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

TOP SECRET
40

1 our recommendations.

2 Mr. Aaron. Okay.

3 Mr. Maxwell. Well, Charlie, correct me. I think the
4 proprietary section would be the appropriate section because
5 that would be where it came up most, unless there is another
6 one that you see more readily.

7 Mr. diGenova. We can work that out. I don't think
8 that's terribly --

9 Mr. Kirbow. I think there have been two or three sug-
10 gestions made here that will result in general recommendations
11 on a page that isn't necessarily supported by findings, but you
12 come to this overally conclusion based upon your total concept
13 of the Agency and its procedures and everything else in view
14 of the findings.

15 Mr. diGenova. The only thing I want to do is -- David,
16 I know you have gone through this, but the Senators may want to
17 look at page 68 through 70, which deal with cover, and particu-
18 larly with Mr. Welch.

19 Ms. Culbreath. I had a point I wanted to raise on that.

20 Mr. diGenova. Well, Mr. Chairman, I think the Senators
21 want to read this.

22 Ms. Culbreath. Why don't we let them look through it.

23 (Pause.)

24 Senator Huddleston. Let's go back on the record.

25 Mr. diGenova. I do know the Agency is going to come in


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# TOP SECRET

41

1 tomorrow to review the cover paper from which this summary is

2 drawn. I know Eric has some problems with the cover paper, both

3 editorially, because they view it as overly simplistic and

4 harsh because it reflects all of the Inspector General's

5 judgments, but they have some problems with cover in general,

6 but I don't think this is going to be part of that problem.

7 Senator Huddleston. I have some problem with this page

8 70. relating to Welch because it seems the whole implication of

9 that is that he was murdered because his cover was blown, and

10 so far there has been no evidence that that is the case. It

11 highlights the argument, I think, correctly, but it seems to me

12 it leaves the impression that here is a case where a fellow's

13 cover or lack of cover resulted in his death.

14 I think the Agency people have specifically said to us

15 so far that they have no reason at this point yet to expect

16 that that was the reason he got killed.

17 Mr. Maxwell. In regard to the specific quote, I think

18 we have to be very careful as to getting involved in an argument

19 which would imply that anything that we possibly did had an

20 effect on it, and also, that it seems to point to Mr. Welch

21 and say, well, it is all his fault.

22 Senator Huddleston. He didn't protect his cover, he

23 didn't do what they advised him to do, and you see down here

24 we have another quote which says, referring to international

25 terrorism and incitement for these kind of people to take the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

TOP SECRET                                                                     42

kind of action which unfortunately led to the death of Dick
Welch. There again we are ascribing something to the death of
Dick Welch which nobody knows yet, you know, what terrorists
killed him or why; at least our record doesn't show.

Mr. diGenova. These statements here, Senator, this is a
direct quote from Eric Eisenstead's memo. Do you think that
we should maybe in the findings and recommendations shorten
this and maybe --

Mr. Kirbow. I think the part of the record which is an
unknown fact is why Dick Welch was killed, and we should stay
away from any quotes or other pronouncements in our paper which
attribute his death to any particular thing unless we know
something.

Mr. Aaron. I think that is a good point. We might put
in here a statement which says the Committee has no information
as to the reasons, purposes or cause, specific cause, of his
death. The point is to get at the question of cover, to
step out to the question of cover in the report, as we do, I
think, appropriately, but not have talked about the one case
where this all came out in public, rightly or wrongly.

Mr. Kirbow. Why don't we use the cover for the gentleman
in London, then, where as the tour buses go by, of course, you
know this is the home of the CIA chief, and he hasn't been
killed yet or anything like that. If we want to use that
kind instead of using this death example, which, by the way,

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

TOP SECRET

43

1 has brought some thousands of letters from the constituency of
2 certain southern Senators who shall remain unnamed or near-
3 Southern Senators, because it kind of was a catalytic agent
4 in getting a lot of complaints on the Committee and everything
5 else, and this pointing out or explaining Welch's death goes
6 back to it.

7 Senator Huddleston. I'm sort of southern.
8 Mr. Kirbow. And you've got a lot of them.
9 Senator Huddleston. Of course, it was used for that
10 purpose by certain high officials for that.

11 Mr. Kirbow. The very highest, including attending the
12 funeral.

13 Mr. diGenova. Well, I think one of the things we wanted
14 to pinpoint here, and first of all, I think we can summarize the
15 Agency's testimony a little better. The Agency said, nothing
16 this Committee did, first of all, had anything to do with his
17 death, as far as they know.

18 Ms. Culbreath. But they don't know.

19 Mr. diGenova. As far as they know, they don't know one
20 way or another, but the impression that was created in the
21 press was, and was pandered to by the DCI and the President,
22 was that the general actions of exposure of Agency operations
23 were responsible for the death of Mr. Welch, and they pandered
24 that by inviting Committee members to the funeral as if they
25 bore some responsibility.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

TOP SECRET

44

Now, the obvious public relations value of Mr. Welch's death, the first time in history the DDO and the DCI go to a funeral in public, they never did that, and there is no doubt that they tried to make political hay out of his death. I think it is only fair that the Committee ultimately say --

Senator Huddleston. Right, but I think you've got two different problems. You've got a problem with whether the Committee wants to present its case and exonerate itself on the basis of everything that is known about the death of Welch, and whether that is pertinent to the problem of cover.

Now, we make a recommendation that the CIA shall make an effort to place a greater proportion of its officer abroad! under nonofficial cover. It seems like what we need, there's a statement here is that official cover has not proved to be effective, and if we mention Welsh at all, I think the point we mention there is that his name was carried, that while he was there supposedly under cover, his name was in fact carried in a newspaper, the name of his newspaper had been carried in a foreign newspaper, and he was living in a house that was known to be the house.

Mr. Kirbow. His true identity was widely known.

Senator Huddleston. We can cite him as an example without indicating why he had been killed, of here is a case that everybody knows about, so-called official cover was not in fact very deep cover. There may be other instances that we


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

TOP SECRET                                                                           45

1 want to refer to, but if we get into his death at all, I think
2 we have got to present the case, that blowing his cover is not
3 necessarily what killed him. Nobody knows that as of now, so
4 far as I know. Nobody knows it wasn't just a street gang or an
5 idiot.

6 Mr. Kirbow. It could have been like the Senator John
7 Stennis case, where they buttonholed him in front of his
8 house and killed him for robbery purposes.
9 Senator Huddleston. We've asked them two or three times
10 here, have we not?
11 Mr. diGenova. Yes, we have. In fact they don't know.
12 Senator Huddleston. In fact, the last time Nelson was
13 here we asked him.
14 Mr. Aaron. Can I try a fix on this, turning to page 70,
15 instead of saying "the career and tragic death of the station
16 chief," let's just say the "situation of the station chief in
17 Athens illustrates the tension. As the Chief of the Cover
18 Staff stated, by the time a person becomes a chief of
19 station, there is not a great deal of cover left" leaving in
20 the rest of that sentence, and then add in here, as you did,
21 "Mr. Welch and his predecessor were both identified and named
22 in the local press. Further, Mr. Welch occupied the same
23 house."
24 Senator Huddleston. Which presumably was known to be
25 the house of the station chief.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

TOP SECRET                                                      46

Mr. diGenova. In fact, the station chief's name and address in Athens had been presented, so when he wasiin there the address had already been printed previously.

Mr. Aaron. Which was also known.

Senator Huddleston. Now, if we want to say something about an added dimension to the seriousness on blowing cover or cover being diminished, is the situation in the world with terrorism or the vulnerability it makes of people

Mr. Kirbow. To the unstable.

Mr. Aaron. Well, the point in the testimony is that this was an added danger, but because they've got a job to do, they're not going to really do too much about it. It's a real risk they are just going to have to bear.

Senator Huddleston. That's an occupational hazard, but we are talking about how to protect their cover, and our recommendation is that they use -- have an official cover.

Mr. Kirbow. Well, can the staff change the language, because we know exactly what you want to do, and without taking further time, why don't we just changecit.

Mr. Maxwell. I would just hope that the two quotes after the one that David cited, the quote, he, Welch, was asked, the last quote, we could make the point in a different way because the impact of the first quotes, I think, is this guy was stupid and irresponsible, and I don't think we need to have any implication like that in the report, and the second one, I


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

TOP SECRET
47

1 think we can make the point that terrorism may constitute a
2 greater threat now.

3 Senator Huddleston. I think that quote ought to go entirely
4 because it does leave the implication that there was a direct
5 link to losing his cover and his assassination.

6 Now, we don't know that.

7 Mr. Aaron. So just take out the last one.

8 Mr. diGenova. But still speak about the added danger of
9 international terrorism. Just stop at the word "international
10 terrorism."

11 Senator Huddleston. Down in the recommendations I've been
12 talking to Joe about defining the small business, and I think
13 we fairly well understand what the concern is, or do we, Joe?

14 Mr. diGenova. Senator, I was going to suggest, if you
15 look at Recommendation No. 3, while it doesn't define what a
16 large proprietary is, the Senator was concerned about what
17 was meant by "should be kept small," and I tried to indicate
18 really we are talking about Air America where you had 8000
19 employees of the CIA, both in Langley and abroad, and then
20 another 8000 employees of the Air America complex. That is
21 big.

22 But I think what we should say is, organizationally small,
23 and organizationally and numerically small, because what we are
24 really talking about is when they get big, whether it is in
25 numbers or finances, and larger in terms of people usually means


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# TOP SECRET

48

larger in terms of finances, also. Then you have both of the problems we addressed in the paper, which was the risk of unfair competition with private enterprise, and the risk of blowing cover, of compromising security.

So I think that --

Senator Huddleston. I was wondering if it could be designed in such a way as care should be taken that it not be any larger than necessary to achieve the objective for which it was established.

Mr. Kirbow. Excuse me, Senator. It would not get the Air America thing because at the time they needed one twice that size.

Senator Huddleston. They needed it that big, that's right.

Mr. diGenova. The reason this language is in here is that the Agency officials themselves who testified, all of them, including the DDO, said they would like to have small ones, in other words, a small number of employees, small operation.

Senator Huddleston. What about their insurance business?

Mr. diGenova. "That's kind of an exception, although actually that is an example of a lot of money with only a few employees. There are only a couple of people that run that whole thing, Isenstead and a couple of -- one investor, Istenstead, and an auditor. There are three men that run that $32 million complex. So that is a different animal, really.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# TOP SECRET

49

1 Senator Huddleston. So if you are going to use the term

2 "small," you've got to say it from the standpoint of employees

3 or resources.

4 Ms. Culbreath. I was just going to suggest that, since

5 another of our recommendations suggests annual review of all

6 of these criteria, and since their budgets are going to have to

7 be included for the oversight committee with review for the

8 others, and we have got a proposal that the Committee also

9 establish guidelines for the approval of the creation of large

10 proprietaries, should these become necessary.

11 Perhaps the better thing to do, since these proprietaries

12 are for a specific need at a specific time, and since we have

13 got the review procedure, is sort of trust it to the oversight

14 committee to see to it that they don't get too big, whatever

15 that may be, and leave it to them, maybe just delete that

16 second sentence.

17 Mr. Kirbow. Well, that's certainly a workable way.

18 Senator Huddleston. I don't see how you are going to keep

19 that sentence in there without having it..

20 Mr. Aaron. I would also suggest that perhaps in the

21 section on proprietaries, where we make a comment about how

22 large proprietaries run risks in blowing their cover, we might

23 would it be possible, do you think, to make a finding or make

24 an example in regard to Air America?

25 Mr. diGenova. Absolutely, because they have conceded


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

TOP SECRET                                                     50

that's the one that ran all of the problems.

Senator Huddleston. You do mention that somewhere, don't you?

Mr. Aaron. It's not mentioned specifically, but it might be possible to say, you know, maybe you can put a footnote on the first paragraph which simply said --

Mr. diGenova. You mean on the findings of page 66 that "too often large proprietaries have created unfair" --

Mr. Aaron. "Unwarranted risks of unfair competition with private business in compromising their cover." You should say, "for example," "Air America, for example, which had 8,000 employees," and so forth, ran into both of these problems.

Senator Huddleston. I think that would be all right.

Mr. Aaron. And then you would have at least some reference to what "large" was.

Senator Huddleston. Then you've got the review and the oversight.

Mr. Inderfurth. So the idea here in the recommendation was to take out the second sentence.

Mr. diGenova. Yes.

Mr. Inderfurth. Why not take out the first as well and just go to Recommendation No. 2 as No. 1?

Mr. diGenova. Well, I think -- can I just say this -- that by indirection, approving of an activity is, I suppose, one way of doing it. I don't see anything wrong with stepping up


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

51

# TOP SECRET

51

1 and saying we examined proprietaries, we found them to be --

2 they had problems but basically they were all right.

3 Mr. Inderfurth. Couldn't that be in the body as well?

4 Mr. Kirbow. The one thing we have failed to do on this

5 Committee is where we are strongly in favor of, is to speak

6 out in a manner supporting an agency under otherwise violent

7 attack from many sources, and I think --

8 Mr. Inderfurth. I think that is not true, Charlie. I

9 think you will find, if you read the findings of Bill Miller

10 and others wrote in the first part, it says very strongly,

11 intelligence is necessary; we need it.

12 Mr. Kirbow. I'm saying up until now it has been an agency

13 under attack. I think this whole section on foreign and

14 military has been to make a balance between past wrongdoing

15 and current operations.

16 The Chairman. There can't be anything wrong with leaving

17 the sentence in there.

18 Mr. Maxwell. May I raise a question to the second

19 recommendation, as to the reason why by statute there would be

20 an annual review rather than recommending that to Congressional

21 Committees.

22 The second part of that is, my understanding of a number

23 of the proprietaries is that they are not operating, and to

24 require GAO audit of a whole group of in a sense notional

25 organizations may be preempting the kind of review that the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

TOP SECRET

52

1 oversight committee should be doing rather than setting it out here. It's just a question.

Mr. diGenova. This is a rewrite of my original recommen- dation, and it is a good point. It may very well be that that is superfluous, if you are considering oversight by a committee.

Senator Huddleston. The Committee cannot conduct an audit, though.

Mr. diGenova. And that was the purpose for the Committee taking on board independent GAO auditors.

Mr. Maxwell. The Committee can request GAO auditors.

Mr. Kirbow. Anything that appears to be on an audit calls for an audit.

Senator Huddleston. Calls for a GAO audit or gives the Committee authority to call for one.

Mr. diGenova. I don't think we need a statute. We can talk about it as part of Congressional oversight. As part of the Congressional oversight function, the oversight committee should review proprietaries annually and where necessary conduct audits with the assistance of the General Accounting Office.

Mr. Kirbow. Here, Mr. Chairman, I think again the point we made yesterday, that we should say at least annually, so that they don't put you in a box if you want one every two months because of circumstances, "at least annually."

Senator Huddleston. You could add in Section 3, at least


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

TOP SECRET

1 there, giving the Committee authority to establish guidelines,
2 to establish for large proprietaries, should they become
3 necessary.

4 You could also make the statement there that the Committee
5 may call for a GAO audit periodically.

6 Mr. diGenova. So we will rewrite 2 to eliminate the statute
7 Senator Huddleston. Independent GAO audit.

8 Mr. Aaron. No. 2 is rewritten so it is not required by
9 statute that there be an audit, internal audit?

10 Mr. Kirbow. No GAO audit.

11 Senator Huddleston. The only thing I had in mind of
12 taking out of 2 was just the independent GAO audit being
13 required by statute, and leave that to the discretion of
14 the Committee, but leave the rest of the review, right?

15 Mr. Maxwell. You amend it by statute that an annual
16 review of all proprietaries?

17 Senator Huddleston. An internal CIA audit.

18 Mr. Maxwell. Or would it recommend that, I'm not sure
19 which.

20 Mr. diGenova. I'm wondering whether it should be done
21 by statute. Maybe we should recommend to the oversight
22 committee that there should be an annual review consisting of
23 internal CIA audit.

24 Mr. Maxwell. An annual report to the oversight committee
25 and such GAO audits as the Committee --


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

TOP SECRET                                                             54

1 Mr. diGenova. May deem necessary.

2 Senator Huddleston. That's all right.

3 Mr. diGenova. And then we could add, as part of its

4 annual report, the GAO should record all of its intercessions.

5 That should be "report." They record all of them, so change

6 "record" to "report".

7 We can rewrite that.

8 Senator Huddleston. Make that a little stronger.

9 Mr. diGenova. Must report?

10 Senator Huddleston. Shall be required to report.

11 Mr. Aaron. I'm sorry.

12 Could we now have a recapitulation by whomever thinks they

13 followed this?

14 Mr. diGenova. Elliot?

15 I defer.

16 Mr. Maxwell. "There should be an annual review"--

17 Mr. Aaron. There is no longer a statute. The Committee

18 recommends that there be, right?

19 Mr. Maxwell. -- "a review, at least annually, of all

20 CIA proprietaries."

21 Mr. Aaron. By whom?

22 Ms. Culbreath. By the oversight committee.

23 Senator Huddleston. By the oversight committee..

24 Mr. Maxwell. Well, you're defining what the review is

25 in the next part. "consisting of an internal CIA audit and a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

TOP SECRET 55

1 report to the oversight committee as well as such independent
2 GAO audits as the committee shall direct. As part of its
3 annual report to the oversight Committee" --- "As part of its
4 report to the oversight Committee, the CIA shall report," and
5 then the rest of the sentence, "all its intercessions on
6 behalf of its proprietaries."

7 Mr. Aaron. May I just make a quick editorial fix? "The
8 Committee recommends the overight Committee conduct an annual
9 review of all proprietaries consisting of an internal CIA
10 audit and report to the oversight Committee."

11 Mr. Kirbow. No, the Committee cannot conduct a GAO
12 audit. They can insist that that's part of the report that is
13 presented to it.

14 Mr. Aaron. That's it, consisting of a report to the over-
15 sight Committee of an internal CIA audit, is that rigt?

16 Mr. Kirbow. What you are trying to do is to require
17 the CIA to reveiw it, to conduct a CIA audit, and to report
18 fully all of the review entailed.

19 Mr. diGenova. Not just the audit themselves. There are
20 certain operational details you are going to want to know about
21 also, not just financial security.

22 Mr. Kirbow. Mr. Chairman, let us rewrite that one. We
23 will include it.

24 Senator Huddleston. Well, you see, you could combine
25 1 and 2 together, since we are just going to use one sentence,

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

TOP SECRET

56

the first sentence in No. 1, and after we say the external and internal controls, the oversight committee should require an annual report of all proprietaries by the CIA, including an internal CIA audit and all intercessions that the CIA may have made on behalf of proprietaries.

Mr. diGenova. That's it, that's all in one sentence. We can fix that.

Mr. Aaron. All right. We'll take Joe's fix.

Mr. Kirbow. In three I am not sure what you mean, "In the DCI's budget presentation." That almost has a word of art connotation in the Senate. A budget presentation is that thing which the Secretary of Defense and the Director of the CIA makes to the Appropriations Committee.

Mr. diGenova. We are talking about an authorization, aren't we, an annual authorization here?

Mr. Inderfurth. Look on page 26 and you'll see the definition of that under (b). The DCI shall have responsibility for preparing the budget of the national intelligence program for presentation to the President and the Congress. This is the budget presentation that's being referred to under this.

Mr. Kirbow. Well, now you come to the real question, proprietaries being listed in the DCI's budget presentation.

Most of his proprietaries neither use any money up nor make any money or anything. They are just shelf items.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# TOP SECRET

Here again you come to the notional.

Mr. diGenova. No, no, Charles, because the point they made during our review out there was that never have the proprietaries appeared in the budget presentation. They have been hidden, and the object is to identify them in the budget as a line item, for example.

Mr. Maxwell. One suggestion might be, be listed, that implies a list of proprietaries.

Senator Huddleston. Where does this list go?

Mr. Kirbow. What you want to do is to require them to include a discussion of the proprietaries in his annual report to the oversight committee is what you want to do, isn't it, because they don't have that now. They don't report to the Armed Services_Committee. They only report to Appropriations.

Senator Huddleston. How would it be listed in the budget under your proposition here, Joe?

Mr. diGenova. Well, I'm just assuming -- well, I am assuming in terms of oversight the Committee is going to want to know, even though this is not going to be published, where this money is going and what it is going to be used for, if they are going to authorize it.

Mr. Aaron. I think the term really should be --

Mr. Kirbow. I think it ought to be more than in the budget.

Mr. diGenova. I know that's not just what they are going

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# TOP SECRET

1 to be asking, but the thrust of this was to make sure that
2 proprietaries found their way into the budget, and that Senators
3 knew what they were authorizing when they authorized the budget.

4 Now, how it gets in there, I am not a budget expert.

5 Mr. Kirbow. That is what I am trying to supply here because
6 in this process there is a procedure that when you say there shal
7 be authorizing legislation, where the line items are discussed
8 before the authorizing committee and not before the budget
9 committee, which is the appropriations committee, and if you
10 require that he discuss or report the annual operation of the
11 proprietaries in his annual report to the oversight committee,
12 you will accomplish what you are trying to do, and not exclude
13 it only for the presentation before the Appropriations Committee.

14 Mr. Maxwell. Could I try a fix on this?

15 Mr. diGenova. You are invited.

16 Mr. Maxwell. The oversight committee should require that
17 the DCI's budget presentation to the Appropriations Committee
18 and the oversight committee_include a specific discussion of
19 the financial aspects of CIA proprietaries. I mean, we are
20 trying to bring them out and see what the impact is on the
21 budget, where do they fit in.

22 Senator Huddleston. Can they do that, though, without
23 identifying the proprietary and where it is located and whatever.

24 Mr. diGenova. They have indicated they could.

25 Mr. Aaron. Jim, Taylor, when he was here talking to the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

TOP SECRET

1 Committee, talked about how they are beginning to -- drawing a

2 way to work in the proprietaries so that they can both identify

3 them and indicate their cash flow implications for the budget,

4 and in effect --

5 Senator Huddleston. What would you have proprietaries --

6 Mr. Aaron. Proprietaries, income and outgo.

7 Mr. Kirbow. But that would never be published, Senator.

8 If you want to accomplish what you are suggesting here,

9 that they report the cash status or the financial status, you

10 add that additional sentence to this combined 1 and 2 up here

11 that the Senator just proposed a minute ago, and indicate that

12 that report should also include the financial status or the --

13 Senator Huddleston. But you do that with the audit, don't

14 you, the internal audit?

15 Mr. Kirbow. Well, in fact you do, in fact you do.

16 Mr. Aaron. Well, I think the point -- maybe I'm not

17 captioning this properly, Joe, but I think the point here is

18 that proprietaries either earn money or cost money, sometimes

19 a little of both, and it has an impact, therefore, on the

20 overall CIA budget, particularly in the past when income from

21 the proprietaries could be placed in either the contingency

22 reserve or used to finance, in effect, operational purposes

23 of the proprietary. In other words, Air America was earning

24 money on its operations, and yet it was costing them more

25 because they were engaged in certain risky operations. In


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# TOP SECRET

In effect, the proprietary was earning money which was financing the proprietary organization.

Mr. Kirbow. But they can no longer do that. What they earn now must go into the general Treasury.

Mr. Aaron. No, gross earnings do not go into the general Treasury. Their net, and part of the cost of doing business would include the cost of some of their operational purposes.

I think the point of this inclusion here was to see if one could require in connection with the budget, not just in general, with an audit of what it does specifically, but in terms of the entire activity of the CIA, to get a spelling out of its sort of macrobudget implications in terms of up or down, and secondly, its budget implications for the certain categories of operations which were involved, such as, if you are talking about the conduct of the support for the activities in Laos.

Mr. diGenova. Paramilitary operations.

Mr. Kirbow. Well, leave it like it is if that is what you are trying to do, because they will be sure to report it-to the Appropriations Committee in excruciating detail, but they won't report it to the authorization committee unless they require it to get money.

So if you want to leave it a detailed budget, their presentation to the budget committee, this language will get that done.

Senator Huddleston. Well, what if you said something like


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# TOP SECRET

this, furthermore, or adding to that, the fiscal impact or the budgetary impact of the proprietaries should be included or defined in the DCI's budget presentation.

Mr. Maxwell. Specifically discussed?

Mr. diGenova. That language would mean it's included in his presentation in some way because the allusion that David made to Jim Taylor is that they are beginning to put it into their budget presentation. I know that is a term of art.

Senator Huddleston. That eliminates any idea of listing them.

Mr. diGenova. Elliot's point also about the authorization committee should be added in there.

Senator Huddleston. We've got so much money invested, and 33 money made money and 40 made money for a net gain of so and so.

Mr. Maxwell. And you should have some notion of that and the problem was that you weren't able to get ahold of it.

Senator Huddleston. And we sold two or three of them for this amount.

Mr. diGenova. That is the whole issue of their visibility in the budget, the whole question.

Senator Huddleston. Well, where does that visibility disappear?

Mr. diGenova. Well, before they never showed up.

Mr. Maxwell. Before you had the covert action.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# TOP SECRET

62

Senator Huddleston. Well, where will it disappear now? It won't come to the authorization committee and the appropriations committee. I mean, it won't be a line item.

Mr. Aaron. Proprietaries as a category?

Mr. Maxwell. I would assume it is going to be a subsection of operational support in covert action.

Mr. Aaron. Not necessarily. I think they are struggling with that at this point trying to define it properly and how it should be presented. I mean, I really don't think we know. They have an intention to do it because they recognize that potentially it is a source of real question as to how much money is being spent on clandestine activities that is self-generated by the Agency because of its proprietary activities.

Mr. diGenova. The impact, Senator, was also to show that the Committee had looked at this broadly, was aware of possible budget and authorization implications of various entities, including proprietaries, and that it wanted to say something about that. It was not necessarily anything dramatic.

Senator Huddleston. Well, I will agree with that. I am just worried about if you say you expose proprietaries too much, you are exposing cover.

Mr. Aaron. Well, this is internal. This is classified.

Mr. diGenova. This is not public.

Mr. Maxwell. Well, I think the language the Senator


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# TOP SECRET

1 suggested got to that.

2 Mr. Aaron. Well, let me see if I can read out what I would

3 propose along the lines I think we discussed.

4 The oversight committee should require that the fiscal

5 impact of proprietaries be made clear in the DCI's budget

6 presentation to the oversight committee. If you want to add

7 the appropriations committee, you can, but I think the point is

8 that that happens.

9 Mr. Kirbow. If you'll listen just one minute, Mr. Miller

10 knows and I believe the Senator knows that "in the Senate there

11 is a formal budget presentation made to the Appropriations

12 Committees." They are not made elsewyere. Reports are made

13 to oversight committees on the status and all of these other

14 things, and if they request any money for those proprietaries,

15 they would request that before the authorizing committee. If

16 you are just trying to accomplish getting it made known to the

17 oversight committee, drop the word "budget presentation" and

18 adopt the common usage of the annual report of the Agency or

19 of the DCI.

20 But that is kind of a word of art. Those are words of

21 art in the Senate, and they will seize on it because today

22 they don't do it for anybody else but the Appropriations

23 Committee.

24 Senator Huddleston. I think that's reasonable enough.

25 It ought to be clear.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# TOP SECRET

Mr. Aaron. Let me try another fix here because I'm not too sure.

The oversight committee shall require the fiscal impact of proprietaries in the CIA's budget be made clear in the Director's authorization presentation, or what phrase is that? In the Director's what?

Mr. Kirbow. The DCI's annual report to the appropriate oversight committee.

Senator Huddleston. The DCI's annual report.

Mr. Kirbow. The Agency would not report separately. They should make their presentation a part of the DCI's report to the appropriate oversight committee.

Mr. Maxwell. While we are on that, could I, on No. 6, we have already, I thought, by statute prevented any covert action being funded other than by (a) appropriation to a covert action budget, or (b) the contingency reserve.

Mr. diGenova. That's right.

Mr. Maxwell. Does that make No. 6 redundant?

Mr. Kirbow. Yes.

Senator Huddleston. The only comment I would make is that the other is not an accomplished fact yet. This might be accepted and that might not.

Mr. Maxwell. Well, the reason I say that is that the way this reads, I would have or would be opposed to it because it provides an exception with the approval of the versight


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# TOP SECRET

65

1 committees, when we want, I think, to be able to go to the

2 Congress and say, we recommend most strenuously that only these

3 two methods be used for funding, rather than providing a third

4 method and someone says, well, maybe we should have a fourth

5 method, and I would like to go with the strongest possible

6 recommendation in regard to the earlier statutory requirement

7 that it only be by specific appropriation to covert action and

8 the contingency reserve fund.

9 Mr. Kirbow. Otherwise, Mr. Chairman, we will stand a

10 chance of getting the other amended, to allow the oversight

11 committee. to allow it.

12 Mr. diGenova. Why don't we say this by statute, and then

13 have the rest of the sentence an addendum which would just

14 allude to the fact that funding is to be accomplished to the

15 method we set out if you want to eliminate it.

16 Well, this was the problem that was raised, or an issue

17 that was raised during the study, and this is set in here

18 for that reason. It can easily be removed if it is inconsistent

19 with another recommendation of the Committee.

20 Mr. Aaron. Well, we have two or three different earlier

21 provisions that relate to this. The first is that re-

22 programming authority, defining reprogramming authority, the

23 possibility that something used for a program covert action X

24 which involves a proprietary that generates a certain amount

25 of money, can be used for program Y.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# TOP SECRET

66

The second issue is we have proposed that covert actions be funded either by line item or by the contingency reserve.

The third thing we proposed is that the contingency reserve be replenished, if I am correct, only by appropriation, concurrence of the oversight Committee.

Now, what this in effect does, I think the question that he's driving at is, what do you do with the profits of a proprietary organization? Can you put it in the contingency reserve?

If so, our other recommendation would pick up the notion that it can only be done with the concurrence of the Committee.

Is there some other purpose, direct transfer? Well,

presumably one of the limitations on reprogramming -- and this would be a fair point to make here, as part of its definition of limitations on reprogramming, it is recommended that the oversight committee proscribe the allocation of profits from any proprietary to a covert operation without their express consent. And this is really kind of -- if it doesn't go through the contingency reserve, it really goes to the question of reprogramming.

Now, I realize that we have said that our other recommendation by implication would prohibit this, but it is only by implication, I would think.

Mr. Maxwell. My sense is that by providing this --

Mr. Aaron. You kind of create a channel.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

TOP SECRET
67

Mr. Maxwell. It's not that you create a channel, but you aid the, increase the temptation for the proprietaries to try to generate funds, and secondly, I think it is the easiest way for the oversight committee to have a handle on covert action, and particularly its funding, is to say there are two ways you can do it. You can do it either by the regular appropriation process, or you can do it through the contingency reserve fund. But if you start to build in the ways that the contingency reserve fund can be replenished, I think people -- I think there may be a loss of control.

Mr. Aaron. Well, this is a way it can be replenished, and this is not prohibited by anything we have recommended yet.

Mr. Maxwell. I understand that, but I guess I was trying to clean up the organizational structure.

Mr. Kirbow. I think this is the problem with recommending the legislation piecemeal, is that the insurance company out there is a covert operation. It is a secret operation at the agency conducted in that manner, and if you allow only covert operation to be funded only from the contingency reserve, whatever monies they generate will have to go back into the general treasury because they cannot be used to either replenish the contingency reserve or to operate a covert or to perform a covert function or operation.

So they are not even -- they can't not only use the profits


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

TOP SECRET

68

1 to do that, they cannot use the general monies that they
2 generate from that to conduct. They will have to fund that
3 insurance program in the contingency reserve.

4 Mr. diGenova. No, not at all, because it is not a covert
5 operation. That is not being use to fund a covert operation.
6 It has been used to pay pensions and annuities to foreign
7 agents. It's not a covert operation.

8 Senator Huddleston. Agents are covert. If you restrict
9 it to use of funds, if it is not already done, no funds
10 derived from the operations of proprietaries shall be used for
11 any other purpose except the operation of the proprietary and
12 any profits shall be returned to the general treasury.

13 It precludes it, doesn't it?

14 Mr. Aaron. That would solve the problem, yes.

15 Mr. Kirbow. And that's what they are doing today by
16 regulation.

17 Senator Huddleston. Can we say that?

18 Mr. Aaron. I don't see why not.

19 Mr. diGenova. Well, we say that in our recommendation No. 4.

20 Mr. Aaron. Well, this says --

21 Mr. diGenova. That deals with terminations and liqui-
22 dations.

23 Mr. Aaron. This is liquidations, and terminations. This
24 is not just operations.

25 Mr. Maxwell. There is one problem, a slight problem. That


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

TOP SECRET 69

1 is that some of the profits are reinvested. It is not that they
2 take everything over or break even.

3 Senator Huddleston. Well, I didn't say that. I said all
4 funds not needed in the operation.

5 Mr. Bader. Perhaps, Mr. Chairman, you could amend No. 4
6 to all returns of funds or profits not needed for the operation.

7 Mr. diGenova. There you go, whether from liquidations,
8 terminations or profits exceed for the needs of the operation
9 of the individual proprietaries should be remitted to the U.S.

10 Treasury.

11 Senator Huddleston. You can work that out so that it would
12 be understood that there is a need to keep a certain reserve
13 back.

14 Mr. diGenova. We will unite 4 and 6.

15 Senator Huddleston. That's all but 5.

16 Mr. diGenova. 5 is only about the Department of Justice
17 being notified as to the disposition.

18 Mr. Aaron. Now, we have two recommendations with respect
19 to cover. The first is just to recommend that the Department of
20 State stop publishing data which makes it possible to identify
21 people under cover.

22 Mr. Kirbow. Well, just a minute. On No. 5 I do have
23 a question here.

24 The Agency doesn't sign off on any other disposal of
25 United States properties and military bases or major edifices or


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

TOP SECRET                                                                               70

1 anything like that..

2 Mr. diGenova. And the reason for that is every other

3 government agency is subject to the rules and statutes of the

4 Federal Disposal of Property Act, and the CIA isn't.

5 Mr. Kirbow. Do you see this could be an abuse area?

6 Mr. diGenova. I could see the Attorney General, if he

7 knew that Admiral Raborn or some other Director is putting

8 pressure on the CIA to dispose of a piece of property, would

9 want to know about that, since they are not subject to the

10 Federal Disposal of Property Act like every other government

11 agency is.

12 I don't think -- I think the record clearly shows, and

13 the General Counsel indicated that he was not opposed to having

14 outside review of their disposals, provided it was classified

15 or done in a classified way since they have never had any

16 problem.

17 Mr. Kirbow. What you are doing here, approving the final

18 disposition of disposal, if you are intending that he review

19 the disposal process or participate in it, he wouldn't have known

20 about Raborn. He wouldn't have known about Raborn at all

21 because he didn't dispose of it to his client, and this would

22 not pick up that kind of abuse that you have discussed here.

23 Mr. diGenova. Suppose it had been disposed of to Admiral

24 Raborn, and they knew about it, and the AG said, why is this

25 being done? It would raise a red flag which would not otherwise


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

TOP SECRET

71

1 be raised since the Federal Disposal of Property Act would not
2 have applied which would have flagged that legally to any other
3 agency.

4 Mr. Aaron. It would also strengthen the Agency's hand to
5 resist those purposes, to just simply say, hey, this has to be
6 signed out by the Attorney General. This isn't going to work.
7 It seems to me that what we do need here --

8 Mr. Kirbow. If what we are trying to do is get his
9 participation, just having him approve it doesn't get his
10 participation, I think we ought to put that in if that's what
11 we want to do.

12 Mr. diGenova. I think the word "approve" is wrong. It
13 should be "participate." The sale or disposition of any CIA
14 proprietary --

15 Senator Huddleston. How are you going to make it "partici-
16 pate?"

17 Mr. diGenova. I think the word we want is "consultation."

18 Senator Huddleston. I think what we are trying to do is
19 replace what other agencies have to do in an overt way and
20 under a specific law, which this agency is not under, so it will
21 have some assurance that it is being done in a proper way.

22 Mr. Kirbow. I don't disagree with the AG being in on the
23 act, but this one gets you participation on disposition.

24 Senator Huddleston. Well, figure a way to get it done.

25 Mr. Aaron. Well, what I wanted to say was I would like to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# TOP SECRET
72

note that back on page 67 where we have struck out the reference
to Mr. Raborn and intend to expand on the pressures having
been brought to bear, part of that expansion should include
a statement that there is no -- or that the Federal Disposal
of Property Act does not apply to the CIA, which is a crucial
aspect.

Mr. Kirbow. They are exempt, and then bring in the
requirement for CIA, or for the AG participation.

Mr. Aaron. And that includes that.

Mr. diGenova. So we will rewrite 5 to make it consultation.

Ms. Culbreath. David, on cover, may I just say, didn't
we decide to delete the opening paragraph?

Mr. Aaron. You're right, you're right.

: Ms. Culbreath. We were just going to list the recommen-
dations.

Mr. diGenova. Yeah, we already said that.

Mr. Aaron. NOW, we have a recommendation that the
CIA should make an effort to place a greater proportion of its
officers abroad under nonofficial cover, and that recommendation
is in brackets. Recommendation (a), that the CIA make a
greater effort to place a greater proportion of its officers
abroad, "under nonofficial cover" is in brackets.

Senator Huddleston. That relates to the Welch discussion.

Mr. Aaron. It relates to the Welch discussion and it
relates to the difficulties and problems of official cover.

TOD REEDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

# TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Bader. How do you feel about this, Joe?

2 Mr. diGenova. This is a problem because just like the man says, cover is a relative thing. I don't think there is anything wrong with saying that the CIA, that they should make an effort to put -- really not much of a recommendation -- should make an effort to place a greater proportion of its officers abroad under nonofficial cover, and the Agency does not see that in this form, wouldn't view that as a bad thing. They thin cover is, if it is deep and effective, is okay. They just say well, their answer this way, well, you know, you don't do much work under deep, nonofficial cover, and one of the prices you pay is you don't have a lot of operational freedom. You have to work hard at your regular job and you don't do a whole heck of a lot.

3 The recommendation, the way it is phrased, is sort of a push to them to see if they can find better ways. It also probably tells them that maybe they should use proprietaries abroad a little more, which are very, very efficient, according to Eric, according to both things, operations and cover.

4 Mr. Aaron. I think we have got to be careful on this point. I mean, we ought to wait until the staff director returns because I think he has a particular interest in this suggestion, but we are talking about moving more people into unofficial cover. I would like to express my own persional reservations about that in terms of its relationship to a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# TOP SECRET

1 number of things that the Committee has already decided to do.

2 Senator Huddleston. We are eliminating a lot of cover.

3 Mr. Aaron. That's the first thing.

4 Now, the second thing -- and these are nonoffocial cover

5 categories. The second thing that we are doing is trying to

6 place somewhat greater authority in the hands of the ambassador

7 and the missions overseas to know what is going on. That is

8 something that they can do when it is in their house. It is

9 something that's extremely difficult for them to do when it is

10 off in the forest someplace.

11 So it is -- and as Joe just said, it looks like a recommen-

12 dation to use more proprietaries, in part because it is in the

13 same section, but in reality because that is one of the ways

14 they might do it, and I just wonder how much we have thought

15 through for ourselves where the balance of our recommendations

16 lie, particularly since most of the stuff is derived basically

17 from operational experience anyway.

18 There was a period, toward the end of Mr. Bissell's

19 career in the Agency, or maybe shortly thereafter, when they

20 began to try to put more people in unofficial cover, and it

21 wasn't a very good experience for them.

22 Mr. Kirbow. David, how does the ambassador lose control,

23 whether it is official or unofficial, except that he has got

24 them in his compound? It is an official government function

25 over which he has absolute control.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

TOP SECRET                                                                                              75

1 Senator Huddleston. But if they keep coming to the
2 embassy to check with him, they blow their cover, unless they do
3 it by telephone.

4 Mr. Kirbow. Well, I don't think they should go to the
5 embassy at all. I think their contact should become covert.

6 Mr. diGenova. Well, we're sort of caught between a rock
7 and a hard place because we know the official cover is we cover
8 it best.

9 Senator Huddleston. Well, maybe we could approach in
10 that one way is to improve official covert

11 Mr. Aaron. That is the one recommendation we make here,
12 but the limits on that are very -- they are just structural,
13 like..

14 Senator Huddleston. It seems to me like we are in an
15 area that we know a lot less about than the people who are
16 in the business.

17 Mr. Aaron.. That is sort of my feeling.

18 Mr. Kirbow. We are asking them to proscribe against
19 anything that they can convince an oversight committee in the
20 future is essential in the trend of that time.

21 Senator Huddleston. Shouldn't we say that the time has
22 come for a whole review of cover to see whether or not they
23 can find some better ways?

24 Mr. Maxwell. We might say that the first large scale
25 study in '48 and '49 of the Agency, done by Mr. Dulles, among


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

TOP SECRET                                                                        76

1 others, recommended very strongly that there be more unofficial

2 cover..

3 I think the Agency has been under considerable pressure
4 throughout its existence to do that, and as Joe pointed out

5 there are certain limits to what it has been able to do.

6 Senator Huddleston. Well, I think rather than suggest
7 what ought to be more or less official or unofficial cover, the
8 whole matter ought to be studied immediately by the Agency, and
9 see if they can find some new ways consistent with all the
10 restraints and prohibitions that the Committee has placed upon
11 them.

12 (General laughter.)

13 Senator Huddleston. All right, where does that leave us
14 here today as we close out today's session?

15 Mr. Kirbow. Mr. Chairman, might I suggest that in keeping
16 with an earlier discussion today, that because it is a summary
17 of findings as well as an introduction, that perhaps while
18 we are nice and fresh, tomorrow we might take up the intro-
19 ductory section prepared by the Staff Director, so that if we
20 change it much, we either make the rest of our --

21 Senator Huddleston. Have any of the other members seen it
22 at all, Bill?

23 Mr. Miller. Just Senator Mathias.

24 Senator Huddleston. All right, do you want to meet at

25 10:00 o'clock in the morning?

NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 79

TOD READET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

TOP SECRET                                                                                       77

1   Mr. Aaron. Are we going to terminate now?.

2   Senator Huddleston. They've got a vote going and it's 5:10.

3   I think we'd better.

4   (Whereupon, at 5:10 o'clock p.m., the Subcommittee

5   recessed subject to the call of the Chair.)

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32423513 Page 80


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)