157-10014-10089 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date : 08/06/95
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10014-10089
RECORDS SERIES : HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 11-H-08

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM : TWEEDY, BRONSON
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 10/09/75
PAGES : 92
SUBJECTS : CIA
ASSASSINATION, LUMUMBA, PATRICE

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/25/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 50955 DocId:32423477 Page 1 [R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TOP SECRET
The United States Senate R1572

Report of Proceedings

3/19/22
BY
EG

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental
Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Thursday, October 9, 1975

Washington, D. C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over
to the Committee for destruct:..)

WARD & PAUL
410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# TOP SECRET

CONTENTS

A
PAGE

4

amt

1

2 WITNESS

Bronson Tweedy

EXHIBITS

5 EXHIBIT FOR IDENTIFICATION

6 No. 1 3

7 No. 2 11

8 No. 3 28

9 No. 4 32

10 No. 5 35

11 No. 6 39

12 No. 7 41

13 No. 8 43

14 No. 9 46

15 No. 10 57

16 No. 11 58

17 No. 12 63

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# TOP SECRET

EXECUTIVE SESSION

-- -- --

Thursday, October 10, 1975

-- -- --

United States Senate,

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations With Respect to

Intelligence Activities,

Washington, D. C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 11:25 o'clock
a.m. in Room 407, The Capitol, the Honorable Richard Schweiker
presiding.

Present: Senator Schweiker (presiding).

Also present: Frederick Baron and Rhett Dawson, Profes-
sional Staff Members.

-- -- --

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# TOP SECRET

## PROCEEDINGS

Senator Schweiker. Would you'raise your right hand?

Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you are about to give is the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

Mr. Tweedy. I do.

Senator Schweiker. It has been nice meeting you.

Mr. Tweedy. Thank you very much.

(Whereupon, Senator Schweiker left the hearing room.)

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. Baron. Mr. Tweedy, you have just received the oath from Senator Schweiker, who has now left the room, and you are under no obligation to continue to testify in his absence, but obviously the Committee would appreciate it greatly if you would continue to testify.

Are you willing to continue to testify in the Senator's absence?

Mr. Tweedy. I plan to testify fully.

Mr. Baron. You are willing to testify to the truth as best as you can do it?

Mr. Tweedy. I will indeed.

Mr. Baron. Are you aware that you have the right to counsel?

Mr. Tweedy. I am.

Mr. Baron. You are appearing here voluntarily without

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1 counsel?

2 Mr. Tweedy. I am.

3 Mr. Baron. Are you also aware that you may cease answering questions at any point if you wish to consult with counsel?

5 Mr. Tweedy. I am.

6 Mr. Baron. Finally, are you aware that all of your Consti- tutional rights are intact, including your Fifth Amandment rights to remain silent?

9 Mr. Tweedy. I am.

10 Mr. Baron. All right, then.

Let us proceed to review a set of documents which were not available to us in your first examination. The attempt here today is not to go over a lot of old ground that we covered in your first examination but to focus our concerns on a few main events in the alleged story of an assassination plot against Lumumba, and to refresh your recollection by review of these documents.

: Let me introduce as Exhibit 1 a cable from Allen Dulles to the Leopoldville Station, marked for Robert Guthman on October 26th, 1960.

(The document referred to was marked Tweedy Exhibit No. 1 for identification.)

TOP SECRET

![the top secret logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# TOP SECRET

TESTIMONY OF BRONSON TWEEDY

Mr. Baron. We discussed this cable in your previous appearance, did we not?

Mr. Tweedy. August 26th.

May I correct the date? It is August 26th.

Mr. Baron. Certainly.

Mr. Tweedy. It is rather important.

Mr. Baron. It is August 26th.

Mr. Tweedy. Yes, we did indeed discuss it the last time.

Mr. Baron. After you took another look at this cable this morning before we went on the record, you made a remark to the effect that this cable was a source of authority as far as you were concerned at the time.

Is that your impression now?

Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

Let me just add to that a bit. The cable per se I did not remember, but it is perfectly obvious the cable is the authority.

When I first talked to Mr. Bissell about this, he certainly implied the only reason the subject was being raised is because it had been of national policy level concern. I do not think it could be more clear-cut than that. This was basically, this was the formal expression of that by the Director himself.

I cannot remember which came first, did I see this cable first, or did I talk to Mr. Bissell first. I suspect that I talked to Mr. Bissell first. It must have been absolutely i

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

TOP SECRET

1 the same time period.

2 This marely confirmed what I think I probably heard from Mr. Bissell first.

4 Mr. Baron. In this discussion with Mr. Bissell, you are

5 referring to the subject of getting access to Lumumba for the

6 purpose of assassination.

7 Mr. Tweedy. I think it probably came up in the sense that the thrust of the American position was that there was no

9 solution in the Congo without the fall from power of Mr. Lumumba,

10 and no measure should be overlooked to achieve this -- constitu-tional, revolutionary and indeed, executive action, if you want to call it that.

12 Mr. Baron.. Meaning assassination?

13 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

14 But none of these possible measures wers excluded, and the main point was that everybody agreed that Lumumba had to go or

16 Wo ware in for very serious trouble in the Congo.

18 Mr. Baron. You were referring a moment ago in discussing this cable from Allen Dulles to the fact that when you first discussed the possibility of assassinating Lumumba as one means of removing him from power with Richard Bissall, Bissell referre to this cable.

23 Mr. Tweedy. No, I would have seen this cable when it wer out. I am afraid you cannot pin me down on this, because I cannot remember the sequence of events. It would have been a

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# TOP SECRET

perfectly natural follow-up to my discussion with Bissell. It is conceivable that this went out before I talked to Bissell, I do not exclude that, but the two ware totally in tandem.

Mr. Baron. Having taken a look at all of the documents that we are about to introduce into the record today, before we begin taking your testimony on the record, are you able to pinpoint with any more precision your initial discussion with Mr. Bissell of the prospect of assassinating Lumumba?

Mr. Tweedy. Pinpoint it in terms of time?

Mr. Baron. Yas.

Mr. Tweedy. No, not in terms of time. I can only assu

Mr. Baron. It would have taken place shortly before this Allen Dulles cable?

Mr. Tweedy. Either shortly before, or shortly after, because the next series of cables obviously get the show, as it ware, on the road.

May I comment just generally on those cables as a group? There are no surprises in them as far as I am concerned, in terms of detail. Much of it, even to this day, I still do not remember.

One aspect emerges very clearly for me, that we were ver careful about examining this on the possibilities of doing anything against Lumumba. Basically, this whole period was a Series of exchanges with the field who were seeking, as you car see from that cable traffic, various measures that might perfor

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

TOP SECRET

7

1 or achieve the goal, including, indeed assassination, but not ,

2 by any means limited to that, that we were in trouble finding

3 means which appeared secure, particularly means which kept the

4 U.S. hand hidden. It is the to and from, and the atmosphere

5 of it which is very familiar to me; the details of it, much of

6 it even on reading them, is rather unfamiliar to me. I found

7 no surprises in it.

8 Mr. Baron. Having refreshed your recollection by reviewing

9 these cables, can you add any greater specificity to the record

10 about the substance of your conversations with Richard Bissell

11 on the possibility of assassinating Lumumba?

12 Mr. Tweedy. I think what we used to do, as I remember it,

13 when it came to the technical exchange with the Station on one

14 asset versus another, the possible security weakness of this

15 man versus the possible strengths of another, Bissell left this

16 largely to me. I do not mean to say that we did not from time

17 to time review it. He did not debate with me on whether White

18 Clam.10 was somebody who was worth dealing with or not, because

19 he had Belgian connections, for example.

20 Mr. Baron. You are saving he would have left the operati:.!

21 details to you?

22 Mr. Tweedy. The operational details of trying to come יי

23 with some solution that looked as if it made sense, and had a

24 promise of success. I do not recall that we would discuss this

25 type of a cable in detail. As you can ses, he released quits

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# TOP SECRET

1 a number of them, because he wanted to remain familiar with
2 them.

(Discussion off the record.)

4 Mr. Baron. Back on the record on this subject.

5 Mr. Tweedy. No, I do not have any further recollection of
6 detailed discussions with Bissell on this. On the other hand,

7 it was perfectly clear that he remained actively interested in
8 it. I am sure that he was the one that had the idea of Justin
9 O'Donnell, for example, I think he undoubtedly came up with
10 that idea. As you recall, I had forgotten entirely that Justin

11 O'Donnell had ever played a role in this. I am sure when he
12 fixed on O'Donnell the possibility to assist the Chief of Station
13 he must have discussed this with him. I can almost say I
14 remember it, but hardly.

15 Mr. Baron. Do you have any recollection of what Bissell
16 said to you in the series of discussions on the prospect of
17 assassinating Lumumba about the level at which the exploration
18 of this prospect had been authorized?

19 Mr. Tweedy. No. That is the aspect I was never clear on
20 except that it was perfectly clear to me that he was quite
21 confident that this was -- I am now talking about the elimination
22 of Lumumba by whatever means. I am not talking necessarily
23 about assassination: I want to be quite clear on that.

24 I was quite clear in my mind that the policy levels of
25 Washington were agreed that Lumumba must go. I cannot go any

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

TOP SECRET

1 further than that. I cannot say, for example, that Bissell
2 said I think as an Agency we should consider assassination on
3 this or that this had been discussed with the policy levels
4 of government. I do not know, and it was never made clear to
5 me nor does this cable make clear, but it was perfectly clear
6 that Mr. Dulles felt quite quiet in his mind about discussing
7 any of these aspects with the State Department or the Ambassador.

8 Mr. Baron. Off the record.

9 (Whereupon, a brief recess was taken.)

10 Mr. Baron.. We are back on the record now.

11 When we stopped, we were discussing your account of your
12 meetings with Richard Bissell where the subject of assassinating
13 Lumumba had arisen among other means that had been considered
14 in disposing of Lumumba. Did Richard Bissell ever indicate
15 directly or indirectly to you that he had the authority of the
16 President of the United States for moving forward with an
17 operation which might include assassinating Lumumba?

18 Mr. Tweedy. Let me make it quite clear, he certainly
19 never mentioned the President at all.

20 Mr. Baron. By name?

21 Mr. Tweedy. By name, or even by any indication. It was
22 merely my impression reinforced, certainly, either before or
23 after, of this cable of Allan Dulles that this was a policy
24 level decision, but the extant to which the Executive had
25 assassination discussed with him at all, I cannot comment on.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

TOP SECRET

1 It is perfectly obvious that the Agency felt that it had
2 the support of the. Executive in efforts to eliminate Lumumba.
3 It was at least my impression throughout this whole period that
4 if it ever came down to the point where somebody said, I think
5 we can do it, and we decided upon the means, that someone would
6 have said, well, bafore we do, obviously there has to be final
7 approval. I would not have known where the final approval
8 would have come from. I would not expect that my correspondence
9 with the Chief of Station in Leopoldville would result in the
10 assassination of Mr. Lumumba without further reference.

11 Mr. Baron. You were under the impression that whatever
12 steps you were involved in toward eliminatir.g Lumumba, as you
13 put it, were fully authorized at the highest level of the
14 government?

15 Mr. Tweedy. Yes, I was.

16 Mr. Baron. That would include the President?

17 Mr. Tweedy. I do not really think I can answer that
18 question., Mr. Baron. Wher. somebody at my level, fairly serior
19 though it was, receives clear-cut assurances that the policy
20 level wants something done, it is very difficult for him to
21 judge whether the President per se has bean in contact with the
22 Agency or that he has done this through his National Security
23 Advisor, the Secretary of Stats, or who-ver. There could he
24 no way that. I could judge that.

25 I think it would be quite misleading if I were to try to

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

TOP SECRET

read into it either then or now.

Mr. Baron. Whatever impression you had of the extent of the authority for the steps that you were taking to eliminate Lumumba was derived from your conversations with Richard Bissell?

Mr. Tweedy. And the cable.

Mr. Baron. And the cable by Allen Dulles.

Mr. Tweedy. Which marely indicated to me that the Agency was confident that it had its policy guidance and was thus acting accordingly.

Mr. Baron. Between this cable on August 26th which Allan Dulles dispatched to the Congo and the cable we will now mark Exhibit 2, which is a cable from yourself to Leopoldville on Septembar 19th, marked Eyes Only, Guthman from Jadwin--

(The document referred to was marked Tweedy Exhibit No. 2 for identification.)

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Baron. Were there any other meetings that you recall
2 between yourself and Richard Bissell where he asked you to
move beyond the exploratory stage to the implementation stage
in assassinating Lumumba?
5 Mr. Tweedy. I do not know at all. I just do not recall
6 that that ever occurred.

7 Mr. Baron. Let us turn, then, to this cable.
8 This cable indicates --
9 Mr. Tweedy. This is the one on the 19th?
10 Mr. Baron. Yes.
11 (Discussion off the record.)
12 Mr. Baron.. Back on the record.
13 This cable begins with your indication to the Chief of
14 Station that someone was proceeding shortly to the Congo who
15 would announce himself as Sid from Paris.

16 First of all, to backtrack, Guthman, in this cable, is
17 the Chief of Station, is that right?

18 Mr. Tweedy. Correct.
19 Mr. Baron.. Who we agreed would be referred to as the
20 Chief of Station or by hin alias, Hedgmena, and Jadwin is --

21 Mr. Tweedy. My pseudonym.
22 Mr. Baron. Did you have a first name in the pseudonym?
23 Mr. Tweedy. Thomas K.
24 Mr. Baron::. Who was Sid from Paris?
25 Mr. Tweedy. I was trying to think. The identity is Sid

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

TOP SECRET

13

1 Brown. Sid Brown as a name means nothing to me.

2 Mr. Baron. If I represent to you that we have had testimony from *Sidney Gottlieb* that this identity stood for himself, does that refresh your recollection?

5 Mr. Tweedy. It would not surprise me. It was my assumption that it probably was, but I could not recall, so I find -- in other words, your explanation, I think, is what I would have expected..

9 Mr. Baron. Do you have any independent recollection of dispatching *Sidney Gottlieb* on a mission to the Congo?

1: Mr. Tweedy. I have the most unclear recollection that I discussed with Mr. Bissell *Sidney Gottlieb*'s going to the Congo. I have no recollections of any conversations I had with Mr. *Gottlieb* himself, although I am quite convinced I had them.

16: In other words, it is inconceivable to me that he would have gone to the Congo without seeing me. I cannot recall the substance of our discussions, although I assume, and I imagine Mr. Bissell must have shared in this, we discussed what it was all about, the operational problems involved, so that he, in turn, could be somewhat sensible about what his own supporting role in this might be.

When I say this, it is a reasonable assumption but it is not direct recollection..

Mr. Baron. Does this cable indicate to you that you did

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

TOP SECRET

1 dispatch *Sidney Gottlieb* to the Congo on a highly sensitive
2 mission?

3 Mr. Tweedy. It does indeed.

4 When you say I dispatched him, I would say it would be
5 more accurate to say that Mr. Bissell and I dispatched him. I
6 am sure the authority for him going would have come from he
7 rather than me, but we arranged the details.

8 Mr. Baron. Your comment about the fact that the authority
9 would have flowed from Mr. Bissell directy is borne out, is it
10 not, by Mr. Bissell's initials on this cable?

11 Mr. Tweedy. Yes, exactly.

12 Mr. Baron. Was that a fairly unusual practice, to have
13 both the DDP and the Chief of the Africa Division sign a
14 cable?

15 Mr. Tweedy. Quite common. Throughout the organization
16 on matters of either particular sensitivity or so important that
17 the DDP wished to be constantly informed about correspondence
18 on a subject, the Chief of the Division would originate and
19 send out cables and have it actually signed off by the DDP.

20 That was quite a common practice in the Agency.

21 Mr. Baron. Do you have a recollection, having seen this
22 document, of the fact that you set up a special channel using
23 the YOPROP sensitivity indicator?

24 Mr. Tweedy. I did not recall YOPROP, but I recall special
25 channels.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Baron. This would have restricted all traffic from
2 yourself to Chief of Station, is that correct?

3 Mr. Tweedy. Yes. My Deputy would also have access to it
4 in my absence.

5 Mr. Baron. That would be Glen Fields?

6 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

7 Mr. Baron. Would Richard Bissell have access to it?

8 Mr. Tweedy. Indeed he would.

9 Mr. Baron. Allan Dulles also?

10 Mr. Tweedy. Certainly if he wanted, absolutely.

11 Mr. Baron. Why was a special communications channel set
12 up in this cable?

13 Mr. Tweedy. Because of the sensitivity of the subject..

14 This, agair., was a frequent procedure in the Agency on sensitive
matters. If one was about to mount a sensitive operation, one
of the first things normaliy done was to set up special
communications procedures so the dissemination of the messages
could be restricted to what was required.

18 Mr. Baron. In this case, the aspecially sensitive subject to
which you were restricting communications access was the elimi-
nation of Lumumba by one means or another?

21 Mr. Tweedy. That is correct..

22 Mr. Baron. What was the assignment that Sidney Gottlie
was to explain to the Chief of Station wher: he arrived in the
Congo?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Tweedy. That, I do not recall. I can only assume
2 that Sidney Gottlieb would have discussed with the Chief of
3 Station instruments which TSD might have which could be of
4 assistance in an assassination attempt. I assumed he discussed
5 his inventory, whatever it might be, and the two presumably were
6 trying to come to some conclusions as to what might have the
7 best chance or the most practical chance of being used.
8 This is my assumption. I think in this early stage, that
9 would have been the purpose of the exercise.

10 Mr. Baron. Let me represent to you the testimony of Sidney
11 Gottlieb about two conversations that he had at Headquarters
12 before he undertook the mission to the Congo in September of
13 1960.

14 First, when Dr. Gottlieb looked at this cable and some
15 subsequent cables which we will discuss today, he said these
16 cables applied to himself. He confirmed the fact that he took
17 a trip to the Congo and arrived on September 26th as is indicated
18 by a subsequent cable, and left on October 5th, as is indicated
19 by another cable.

20 Dr. Gottlieb said before he left the Congo -- I am sorry,
21 before he left for the Congo -- he had a conversation with you
22 and Glen Fields in which you instructed him to take a lethal
23 material to the Congo and give it to the Chief of Station,
24 with instructions to assassinate Lumumba if it were possible
25 and to instruct the Chief of Station in the technical means by

TOP SECRET

![photo of a stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

TOP SECRET

1 which this lethal material could be administered through

2 Lumumba's food or toothpaste or something that he would ingest.

3 Mr. Gottlieb also testified that in that conversation you

4 indicated to him that these instructions were being given at

5 Richard Bissell's authority.

6 Did that conversation take place?

7 (Discussion off the record.)

8 Mr. Tweady. His testimony does not basically refresh my memory. The only aspect of it which I would find unrealistic is

9 that he had an instruction from me to tell the Chief of Station

10 to use this material and go ahead and assassinate Lumumba, as

11 if, in effect, that is all the authority that was necessary.

12 To be frank, that does not make sense. The rest of it is

13 perfectly feasible. I do not recall it in the detail, but I

14 am not going to deny what Sid said. I think his recollection

15 that I told him, in effect, to go to the Chief of Station and

16 sort of get the show on the road and use the poison and

17 assassinate Lumumba without any further ceremony is just not the way it would have happened.

18 Mr. Baron.. Why is that?

19 Mr. Tweady. For the simple reason that under no circumstance would that instruction have been given by me without reference.

20 to higher authority up through the chain of command.

21 Mr. Baron. When you say reference to higher authority,

22 what do you mean.?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

TOP SECRET

18

1` Mr. Tweedy. My higher authority in the first instance

2 would be Mr. Bissell.

3 Mr. Baron. Dr. Gottlieb did testify --

4 Mr. Tweedy. I understand.

5 Mr. Baron. -- that you referred in your conversation with

6 him to the fact that you had authority from Mr. Bissell for the

7 assignment you were giving to Gottlieb.

8 Mr. Tweedy. The only thing that Mr. Gottlieb, would disagree

9 on is that there would be no further reference, which his

10 statament implies from Leopoldville before they took any action

11 on this matter, in other words, take the final action on this

12 matter, and that was never a matter, to the best of my recollec-

13 tion, that was ever delegated by Mr. Bissell. In other words.

14 Mr. Bissell never said, look, you have the picture, go ahead

15 and do it in your own good time without any further reference

16 to me or anybody else, nor is the tenor of this correspondence

17 as I read it that way at all.

18 Mr. Baron. Do you recall if Mr. Bissell ever want as far

19 as telling you that if an opportunity arose to carry off the

20 assassination of Lumumba in a situation where it would be

21 practically impossible to confirm, that there was authority

22 for proceeding with the assassination with Headquarters, that

23 the Chief of Station would be, under those circumstances,

24 authorized to proceed to assassinate Lumumba?

25 Mr. Tweedy. No, I do not.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

TOP SECRET

19

1 Mr. Baron. Do you have a recollection about that one way

2 or the other?

Mr. Tweedy. I do not recall that he ever put it to ma

4 this way.

5 Mr. Baron. Let us then break down your statement about this

6 meeting with (*Dr. Gottlieb*) into component parts.

7 You agree now, having heard *Dr. Gottlieb's* testimony, that

8 it is true that you had asked (*Dr. Gottlieb*) to go to the Congo?

9 Mr. Tweedy. Indeed, as I assumed I had, yes.

Mr. Baron. It is also true that you knew that (*Dr. Gottlieb*)

was to carry a lethal material to the Chief of Station in the

Congo?

Mr. Tweedy. If he says so, I do not disagree with him.

I do not frankly recall that at this point, but I am perfectly
wadded to accept what he says.

Mr. Baron. Assuming, for the moment, that you would have
required the Chief of Station to check back with Headquarters
before he carried out an assassination mission, would it be
true that you assigned *Dr. Gottlich* the task of instructing
the Chief of Station to assassinate Lumumba on that basis?

Mr. Tweedy. (*Dr. Gottlich*) was the head of the Technical
Services Division, or whatever it was called in those days.

Mr. Baron. Let me jump in for a moment.

At this point, for about a year and a half, he was the
Science Advisor to Mr. Bissell, and he moved to Tachnical

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

TOP SECRET

20

1 Services shortly thereafter.

2 Mr. Tweedy. The way you put it to me was that I instructed

Gottlieb to assassinate Lumumba. The answer to that is, I am

4 sure I never instructed Gottlieb, to assassinate Lumumba. This

5 is the way you put it to me.

6 Mr. Baron. Let me correct that.

7 What I meant to say was, would you have asked Gottlieb

8 to convey the instruction to the Chief of Station that he was

9 to assassinate Lumumba if he found a way to do it and if he

10 confirmed it with Headquarters?

11 Mr. Tweedy. My answer to that is almost certainly not.

12 That would have been covered in other correspondence, which I

13 think is demonstrated by these cables, to the Chief of Station

14 direct from me with authority of Mr. Bissell. I would not have

15 used, neither would Mr. Bissell, Mr. Gottlieb as the channel

16 for this instruction.

17 Mr. Baron. Dr. Gottlieb has also testified that, aside

18 from carrying the materials to the Chief of Station and

19 instructing in their use and giving him an instruction about a

20 mission to assassinere Lumumba, that he had one further role

21 in the Congo; he was to serve as a technical advisor to the

22 Chief of Station on the feasibility of using these biological

23 substances to carry off the operation.

24 As Gottlieb put it, Gottlieb was to stay down there for

25 a short period of time to determine the technical feasibility

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

TOP SECRET

21

1 of the operational plan that the Chief of Station might come

2 up with.

3 Mr. Tweedy. This seems quite reasonable to me. Presumably:

4 with his technical knowledge of the nature of these materials

5 he would be in a position to either comment on or advise the

6 Chief of Station as he attempted to put together some kind of
7 operation. That makes good sense to me.

8 He would require, basically, a technical advisor.

9 Mr. Baron. *Dr. Gottlieb* also testified that the materials

10 he took with him were of a fairly short life. Their toxicity

11 would wane within a matter of weeks.

12 Given that bit of information to refresh your recollection.

13

14 does that make it more likely that *Gottlieb* was there, to aid

15 the Chief of Station in actually carrying off the administration
of these drugs, as opposed to giving him general instructions

16 in the use of such lethal substances?

17 Mr. Tweedy. I do not know really that I can comment on

18 that. If the materials would deteriorate fast, the use of them,

19 if possible, I would stress the latter, would necessarily have
to be expeditied, but the overwhelming concern of Headquarters
and the field, again, demonstrated in this correspondence was
our concern that this thing could be done at all, that it be
done right, securely, and that the U.S. hand should be
concealed.

If this was at odds with the life of these materials,

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

TOP SECRET

1 think that would have just been too bad. But I think it is
2 perfectly clear that we would not have expedited anything at
3 the risk of doing it unprofessionally.

4 Mr. Baron. At the point that Gottlieb left for the Congo
5 after talking with you, would he have been enpowerad to convey
6 to the Chief of Station that an assassination of Lumumba could
7 be carried off if he could meet the criteria you just laid out,
8 concealment of the U.S. hand and use of these materials before
9 their potency waned?

10 Mr. Tweedy. My answer to that would be he would be in no
11 position to do anything more with the Chief of Station if thev
12 reached that point in planning, that as of the last time hu
13 was at leadquarters that there would probably be an approval
14 from Washington.

15 Mr. Baron. You would axpect, then, the Chief of Station
16 would have been expected to reconfirm with Headquarters the
17 fact that he had a go-ahead?

18 Mr. Tweedy. It would never have occurred to me otherwis

19 Mr. Baron. It would be your testimony that, although you
20 do not specifically recall your conversation with Dr. Gottlieb
you would have made that clear to (Dr. Gottlich?

21 Mr. Tweedy. I would have thought so, yes, but I could not
comment any further.

23 Mr. Baron. The reason for that is you do not recall the
24 conversation?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

TOP SECRET

23

1 Mr. Tweedy. Not only that, Dr. Gottlieb was as familiar

2 as I was with (a) the sensitivity of this particular project
and what was involved and the way that the Agency did its
business, which was things of this kind were not dealt with on

5 sort of an offhand basis.

6 Mr. Dawson. What is offhand?

7 Mr. Tweedy. The fact that the field and Dr. Gottlieb were
given something in the nature of a blank check as to how they
would go about it and when, without further reference to
Headquarters.

Mr. Dawson. If we are to tie this to the cables, then,
is there something in the cables predating Gottlieb's visit to
the Congo which would lead you to believe that it had previously
been authorized by some words in those cables?

Mr. Tweedy. What, Mr. Dawson, had previously been authorized?

Mr. Dawson. The authorization of the assassination effort,
the elimination of Lumumba.

Mr. Tweedy. Only in the most general terms. No operatio:.
had been put forward by the field. In our business, these
things were done by operational planning, at which point one
came up with an operation that was agreed upon by the Station
and by Headquarters, and this, then, would have been either
implemented or not, according to the sav-so from Headquarters.

:ir. Dawson. That kind of operational planning is

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

TOP SECRET

24

1 after Mr. Gottlieb arrives in the Congo, is that correct?

2 Mr. Tweedy. This, in affect, is that (Indicating). You can tell by the Chief of Station, there is no further

4 reference to Mr. Gottlieb, as I recall.

5 Mr. Baron. In this cable traffic?

6 Mr. Tweedy. In this cable traffic, was looking at all

7 sorts of ways and means of eliminating Lumumba, not restricted to assassination, which coincides exactly with my recollection

9 of the period between when the subject was first broached to the Station and that rather indefinable period when, in effect, it

11 was all over, which, I suppose, basically is the disappearance of Lumumba.

12 I think all of this traffic supports my contention that

13 under the instructions he was given, the Chief of Station in Leopoldville set about exploring all alleys and found none

15 crystal clear. There were problems with all of them. Some looked more promising than others. Individuals who might be

17 used obviously looked more promising than others. Some were discussed and discarded. We commented on some. And so it

19 wait.

Mr. Baron. I think that we should proceed in a moment to go through these cables with a close eye, one by one.

One further point in Dr. Gottlieb's testimony, to be fair to him, he said he was under the impression that it was general Agency procedure that in a mission like this one the Chief of

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# TOP SECRET

25

1 Station probably would check back with Headquarters, that any

2 prudent Chief of Station would check back to reconfirm his
authorityto go ahead with an assassination operation, but Dr.

4 Gottliebisaid in his conversation with you he was not told

5 that he should convey to the Chief of Station the requirement

6 that he should check back with Headquarters before he proceeded

7 with the assassination of Lumumba.

8 Mr. Tweedy. I cannot comment on his statements, because

9 I cannot recall what I said to him. It certainly is perfectly

10 conceivable to me that I could have had this conversation with
him and not mentioned this, that this would be covered in all

12 the basic correspondence that I was having with the Chief of
Station.

14 Mr. Haroi. So then it is possible -- or is it probable

15 that in your instructions to *Sidney Gottlieb* about his mission

16 to the Congo you might not have explicitly mentioned the

17 requirement that the Chief of Station return to Headquarters

18 to reconfirm his authority to move ahead with the assassination.

19 Mr. Tweedy. It is, I suppose, possible. I am not going
to say it is not possible. I am merely saying that that is

21 not the way we did business, and on the whole, Sidney Cottligh

22 would be as familiar with that as I would -- perhaps not as
familiar with it, because he was on the technical side where I

24 was on. the operational side and used to this chain of command
thing and the relationship between the Division and Station

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

TOP SECRET

26

1 Chiefs in the field, to a greater extent than Dr. Gottlieb would.

2 The last thing I am doing is impugning his veracity and his testimony.

4 Mr. Baron. When you say it is not the way we do business,

5 you meant to say it was your understanding in general Agency practice that the Chief of Station in a situation like this

7 would be expected to check back with Headquarters?

8 Mr. Tweedy. When a Chief of Station was given the authority

9 to carry out something entirely on his own initiative, that

1 was made quite clear -- I'm not talking about this case, I mean

:: ganurally -- this was made quits clear.

:: Mr. Baroi.. When you were talking about the fact that "this was not the way that we generally did business," you wer-

: not referring to the fact that you would have made it absolute!..

:: explicit in any conversation with Sidney Cottlieb or anybody

:: like him who was undertaking a sensitive mission that the Chis

:: of Station would be expected to check back?

:: Mr. Tweedy. If I had not mentioned this to Sidney Gottlis and he said I did not, I am perfectly prepared to believe him,

: it would be because it never occurred to me that the Chief of Station would act in any other way. That is it.

:: Mr.. Dawson. Of course, Mr. Hedgeman also testified that it never would have occured to him to have carried this out without having checked back, and he did so, of course: the cables will show that very clearly. What we are trying to for

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

TOP SECRET

27

1 on is exactly what Mr. *Gottlieb* conveyed to Mr. Hedgeman,

2 which, of course, you could not testify to.

3 Mr. Tweedy. I could not.

4 Mr. Baron. Or what you said to him.

5 Mr. Tweedy. I think it is quite possible that I did not

6 say to Mr. *Gottlieb, Sid,* for Heaven's sake, do not have the

7 Chief of Station go off assassinating this fellow without

8 referring back to Headquarters. It would never have occurred

9 to me to do that. It would have been, in my view, superfluous.

10 Mr. Dawson. You are, of course, aware that Mr. Hedgeman

11 was aware of this practice in the Agency?

12 Mr. Tweedy. Certainly.

13 Mr. Dawson. You had seen that happen. He had only been

14 Station Chief for a short time; in spite of that, he was still

15 aware of Agency practice?

16 Mr. Tweedy. I think that it would be perfectly true to

17 say that any clandestine services officer who had reached a

18 certain seniority in field experience whether he was Chief of

19 Station or not, he would have sucked this in with his mother's

20 milk. We were, if I may say so, a very disciplined organization
in that regard.

21 Mr. Dawson. Specifically as to Mr. Hedgeman, that would
apply to him also?

22 Mr. Tweedy. It would indeed.

23 Mr. Baron. Let us proceed then to a document we will mark

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

TOP SECRET

1 Exhibit 3, which is a cable from Bronson Tweedy to the Chief
2 of Station for his eyes only on September 22, 1960.

(The document referred
to was marked Tweedy
Exhibit No. 3 for
identification.)

TOP SECRET

![document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# TOP SECRET

29

Mr. Tweedy. This is mostly discussion of [Schotroffa] 04

Mr. Baron. The man you referred to was at this time an agent that was in contact with the Chief of Station?

Mr. Tweedy. I remember him very well. I could not possibly remember his name. I remember him very well; I met him later.

Mr. Baron. He proved to be a highly effective agent for the Station?

Mr. Tweedy. He was a very good intelligence agent, an excellent intelligence agent, for the simple reason that he was able to make contact with groups and media in the Congo which was very difficult for non-Africans to reach. He was, for a year or two, a first-class intelligence source basically: not an action source, but an intelligence source.

Mr. Baron. When you read the sentence that is at the beginning of paragraph B on the first page where it says:

"Concur this possibility worth watching, but if decided support 05 for VOPROP objectives. Believe essential such be provided through third national channel with PBPRIME role completely concealed."

What are you referring to there?

Mr. Tweedy. I am not sure: I do not remember. I do not recall what the incoming cable said.

What I am obviously saying is [Schotroffa] 04 had, I guess, an [American] wife who was, at least had been, [State department] 08 employee. I think what I was saying is, if we wanted to use

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

TOP SECRET

1 Schotrotte directly in an assassination attempt, that I would

2 not dismiss it out of hand.

3 Mr. Baron. You would be concerned about its security?

4 Mr. Tweedy. Absolutely.

5 Mr. Baron. You then would say the phrase "YOPROP objec-

6 tives" would refer to an assassination attempt?

7 Mr. Tweedy. Yas.

8 Mr. Baron. That the assassination, discussion of an

9 assassination attempt, was being restricted to the YOPROP

10 channel?

11 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

12 Mr. Baron. On the last page of this document --

13 Mr. Tweedy. The only thing that worries me about this

14 conclusion of mine is this, the more I read it, 2-B is another

15 paragraph, which may not have had anything to do with Schotrong

16 at all and I do not faal, at least I cannot recollect, why

17 any leaks would almost certainly have included the French

18 if Schoutrofee were involved in this. Thus, I am inclined to

19 feel I am talking about somebody else and not Schotroffe

20 Mr. Baron. I will represent to you in other cable traffic,

21 I believe, which we will review as we proceed here, there was

22 discussion of the use of ano...........

23 Mr. Tweedy. This was probably the case. I do not think this refers to Schotrotte. B here I do not think refers to Schotrotife. I cannot recall --

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# TOP SECRET

31

1 Mr. Baron. Who?

2 YQPROP objectives would still refer to exploring possibilities to an assassination attempt?

4 Mr. Twoudy. Yas.

5 Mr. Baron. This may refer to exploring it with a

6 different agent?

7 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

8 Mr. Baron. On the last page, paragraph 3, it tells the

9 Chief of Station: "Not intended you construe above comments as basically negative. You and colleague understand we cannot read over your shoulder as you plan and assess opportunities.

11 Our primary concern must be concealment PRPRIME role unless outstanding opportunity emerges which makes calculated risk first class bet. Ready entertain any serious proposals you make based our high regard both your professional judaments."

16 What are you referring to in that paragraph? What message are you conveying to the Chief of Station?

18 Mr. Tweedy. Well, I think if you read the cable you will notice that we have found difficulty with a number of his proposals. These were exploratory proposals. I wanted --

21 Mr. Baron. For carrying off an assassination mission?

22 Mr. Tweedy. You keep coming off with an assassination mission as if this was always just around the corner. What I am saying is, we are in a period hera quite commor. in our business of very intensive operational planning and exploration..

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

TOP SECRET

32

All sorts of things were coming up from the field. I had commented on it here; in the end, I say, do not be discouraged because you do not see the probable channel we will use. I assume the colleague was *Sid Gottlieb*, because I guess he was still there.

Mr. Baron. The first time he had not arrived, but you had already cabled that his arrival was imminent?

Mr. Tweedy. I assume that that is the colleague. I do not think he would have talked to anybody else on it. That is all it means.

It is, if you like, a technique of management.

Mr. Baron. Moving on to a document that we will mark Exhibit 4, the next cable, is from Allen W. Dulles of September 24, 1960 and your pseudonym is also listed as one of the senders of the cable to the Chief of Station.

(The document referred to was marked Tweedy Exhibit No. 4 for identification.)

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Baron. In this cable, in the first paragraph, it says:

2 "We wish give every possible support in eliminating Lumumba

from any possibility resuming governmental position or if he falls

in Leop" -- meaning Leopoldville -- "setting himself in Stanley-

5 ville or elsewhere:

6 First, for the record, any time your pseudonym "Jadwin" or

7 your name "Twaady" appears in the upper lefthand corner of a

8 cable or your signature appears on the bottom, you dispatched

9 that cable? Is that not right?

10 I am referring generally to the cable traffic.

11 Mr. Tweedy. What it means is this. It could maan severel

12 things, but I personally dictated the cable and dispatched it

13 without further reference, or for some reason I constructed the

14 cable and had it released by a higher authority, either Mr.

15 Bissall or Mr. Dulles. Although those were not the only alter-

16 natives, if my name was on it, I was connected with it in ons
form or another.

17 I would quess that I dictated the cable and that fir. Dulles

18 and I do not have any idea how this came about -- Mr. Dulles

19 wanted to see it, and Mr. Bissell suggested that it go out

20 from Mr. Dulles and myself, I just do not know. What this

21 means is, Dullas and Tweedy were totally aware of the cable.

22 Mr. Baron. "eturning then to the sentence I cited from

23 the cable where you and Dulles were talking about giving ever

24 possible support in eliminati. Lumumba, what message

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# TOP SECRET

34

Mr. Tweedy. "Eliminating Lumumba from any possibility resuming governmental position." This, if I may say so, reverts to the original instruction from Mr. Dulles which was that the U.S. position was that Mr. Lumumba must be removed from a position of authority in the Congo and that assassination was not by any means the only way by which this might be accomplished.

This, I think, merely reiterates that it is not a -- being a YQPROP cable does not refer specifically to assassination.

Mr. Baron. Would this cable, in using the phrase "eliminating Lumumba" in this context contemplate assassination as at least one of the possible means that might be used?

Mr. Tweedy. I am afraid if I may say so you are putting words in my mouth. This is exactly what it says. He has two messages now from Mr. Dulles. The first one, I think, was perfectly clear. Since then he has had messages from Mr. Dulles' subordinates like myself. This merely makes it clear again that Headquarters wishes to "give every possible support in eliminating Lumumba from any possibility resuming governmental position." and I cannot say more than that, and I think to say that this stresses assassination would be quite untrue. But the Chief of Station in Leopoldville was already under instruction to be considering this as one of the possibilities.

Mr. Baron. Assassination?

Mr. Tweedy. This does not change that.

Mr. Baron. I think that is fine.

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

TOP SECRET

1 The interesting aspect of that sentence for me is the
2 rest of the sentence where it makes it clear that not only is
3 there a concern about Lumumba being able to resume his position
4 in Leopoldville, but anywhere else, and it would saam that
5 assassination would at least have to be one of very few means
6 that could insure that fact that Lumumba would not resume a
7 position of power anywhere.

8 Mr. Tweedy. I do not think I can comment any further.

9 Mr. Baron.. Lat us introduce as Exhibit 5 a cable
10 dispatched from the Chief of Station on September 27th, 1960
11 for your uyes Only, and this cable begins with a reference to

Dr. Gottlieb

13 It says he was contacted 26 September. "We on same wa
14 length." Then it continues, "Hance balieva most rapid action.
15 consistent with security indicated."

16 The next paragraph says, "Rasis 2 talks considering
17 possibilities:" -- there follows a list of possibilities from
18 A to G and paragraph 3 on the bottom of page? says, "Plan
19 proceed on basis priorities as listed above, unless instructed
20 to contrary."

(The document refarred
to was marked Tweedy
Exhibit No. 5 for
identification.)

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# TOP SECRET

36

1 Mr. Baron. Does that indicate to you that on the list of

2 priorities, priority A would have been considered by the Chief
of Station to be his top priority?

4 Mr. Tweedy. Can you read, by the way, paragraph 2: "Basis

5 2 talks considering possibilities" of dispatching Schotroto

6 to Stanleyville and taking refuge -- that would be refuge, would
7 it not?

8 Mr. Baron. Yes. "Recall Schotroffe from Stanleyville" --

9 Mr. Tweedy. -- "and have him take refuge with Big
10 Brother" --

11 Mr. Baron. -- "Would thus act as inside man to brush up
12 details to razor edge. Also would provide info on food and
13 agricultural problem. Guthman recalling Schotrotto to Leop."

14 When Dr.. Gottlieb looked at this cable, he testified that
15 this cable indicated that he arrived in the Congo on the 26th
16 of September. He had two talks with the Chief of Station where
17 they discussed various operational possibilities of getting rid
of Lumumba. The letter A represented their top priority plan.

Would you agree with thet interpretation of the cable?

Mr. Tweedy. I would think so.

Mr. Baron. Would you --

Mr. Tweedy. When he says: "Plan proceed on basis prior-
ities as listed above" this again is not what he was going to
do at the conclusion of this without further reference carry
out ar. assassination. He says, what we see is Schotroffe th..

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

TOP SECRET

1 best answer to our problem.

2 Mr. Baron. Does he not indicate in this cable though that he would proceed to implement these plans unless he ware instructed to the contrary? In other words, this very cable might constitute his request for a confirmation.

6 Mr. Tweedy. I disagree. I think these various possibili-

7 ties still need further exploration is what he was suggesting to Headquarters he concentrate on that is the best possible use

8 of *Schotroffe* on this including further operational intelligence

10 on the situation which might lead to an agreement that we would

11 use this man, and then all these others, but it does not in any sense, as far as I am concerned, it is not in any sense the

13 Chief of Station. saying, if A looks terribly good I shall just go ahead and finish the job without further reference. Not at all.

16 Mr. Baron. I do not understand how you can read the phrase "unless instructed to the contrary" in that way.

Mr. Tweedy. Because there are other possibilities here.

I am sorry, but I am afraid looking at it fifteen years later in the subject that you are engaged in, I think you would look at it entirely differently than I would, working on a day-to-day matter with the Chief of Station. There is absolutely nothing in this cable which says that they have the answer to *Schotroffe's* use.

Mr. Baron. Does paragraph A indicate that *Schotroffe* would

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

TOP SECRET

1 take refuge with Big Brother, meaning move into *Lumumba's*

2 *entourage?*

3 Mr. Tweedy. I think probably this would be -- I am trying

4 to think how this was.

5 Was this possibly *Jasingar?*

6 Mr. Baron. I do not know the operational details.

7 Mr. Tweedy. He did have some access to *Lumumba's entour-

8 age*, which was the reason we were so interested.

9 Mr. Baron. Would you assume that this cable is suggesting

10 that *Schotrotte* be recalled to Leopoldville so that he might

11 move into *Lumumba's entourage?*

12 Mr. Tweedy. Absolutely.

13 Mr. Baron. Where it says he "would thus act as *inside man*,

14 to brush up details to razor edge," would you assume that refers

15 to exploring the means by which Lumumba might be poisoned?

16 Mr. Tweedy. I think that is quite a possibility. I cannot

17 specifically say yes. I suspect he was our best potential source

18 for operational intelligence, if you like, on this.

19 Then he says "Also would provide info on food and agricul-

20 tural problems." I have a vague recollection at this point that

21 he was reporting rather importantly on aspects of food and

22 agriculture which was a major political factor within the Congo

23 then. I cannot put it any more clearly than that.

24 I think it is that this would be a byproduct of this, that

25 we would get more good reporting on the subject.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Baron. You would read that sentence literally instead 39
2 of an oblique reference to getting access to Lumumba's food by
3 which he might be poisoned?

4 Mr. Tweedy. I would read it much more literally than that.

5 Mr. Baron. Let us turn then to Exhibit 6, which is a
6 cable from the Chief of Station on September 30th to Jadwin,
7 which is yourself -- (The document referred

8 to was marked Tweedy

9 Exhibit No. 6 for

10 identification.)

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

TOP SECRET

Mr. Baron. -- in which the Chief of Station says: *No really airtight op possible with assets now available. Must choose between cancelling op or accepting calculated risks of varying degrees."

Schotroffe best asset available. View necessity act immediately, if at all, urge Headquarters authorize exploratory conversations to determine if chotroffe willing take role as active agent or cut-out this op."

First, would you read the sentence or the phrase "view necessity act immediately, if at all" to refer to the fact that at this point Cottlieb had informed the Chief of Station that the lethal material was of a limited life?

Mr. Tweedy. I cannot really comment on that. That is certainly a perfectly reasonable explanation for that remark, but as I do not know exactly where Lumumba sat on that particular moment when this cable was sent, it might have something to do with his availability or something else, I just do not know.

Certeinly your first point is a possibility. It aquall makes cleer, of course, that although schotroffe hal bed se in an operational intelligence support role, he at this point had never been cut in on plans. Of course, Chief of Station did not know whether he would be willing +0 70 1ong with th:: Sto not.

Mr. Baron. The Chief of Station here is considering an.

TOP SECRET

![logo of SIBR]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# TOP SECRET

1 approach to Schotrofff first on a hypothetical basis --

2 Mr. Tweedy. Yas.

3 Mr. Baron. It is clear here, is it not, that Schotroffe is being viewed as a potential assassination asset?

5 Mr. Tweedy. Indeed.

6 Mr. Baron. Let us introduce as Exhibit 7 a cable on 30 September 1960 signed by Glen Fields to the Chief of Station,

8 again in the YOPROP channel.

(The document referred to was marked Tweedy Exhibit No. 7 for identification.)

# TOP SECRET

![logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# TOP SECRET

42

Mr. Baron. Prasumably, it is responding to the cable that we just looked at, and in this cable, Glen Fields says, "You are authorized have exploratory talks with Schotrofite to assess his attitude toward possible active agent or cut-out role."

Would you assume that Glen Fields consulted you before sending this authorization to the Chief of Station?

Mr. Tweedy. Not necessarily. I might have been out of town that day. As you will notice, all he says is, "You are authorizal have exploratory talks" and "Agree with you initial discussions should be on hypothetical basis." And, of course, at that point, we would expact a raport from the field on how it went.. He was taking it one step further. He might not have cleared that with me if I were away. He might also have perhaps cleared it with Mr. Bissall.

Mr. Baron. As your Deputy, it would have been perfectly proper in your eyes for Glen Fields to have issued this cable without consulting you?

Mr. Tweedy. Certainly. It is quite possible, too, that he ever told Mr. Bissell what he was planning to do. I cannot tell you specifically. This is all that this cable authoriz. I find it entirely within his delegated responsibilities.

Mr. Baron. Would it have been standard procedura for Glen Fields, in your absence, to mention to Richard Bisselle the fact that such authorization to be sent to the Chief of Statio.:

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# TOP SECRET

1 on an exceptional and sensitive mission like this one?

2 Mr. Tweedy. Would you say that again?

3 Mr. Baron. Would it have been standard procedure for

4 Fields to check with Bissall in your absence before he sent such a cable?

5 Mr. Tweady. No. Field's understanding of his authorities

6 and his relationships with the DDP on such matters were exactly the same as mine. We would have seen eye to eye with him.

7 If I had sent the cable, undoubtedly I would have let

8 Mr. Bissall know that I was planning to carry this thing that much closer. The reason for that is that we were getting close to informing a third party that this was in the wind. Therefore before we actually took this step, I think something like this, a third party being Schotroff

9 Mr. Baron. As Exhibit 8, we will introduce a cable on October 7th, 1967, from the Chief of Statlin to Jadwin, which is yourself.

(The document referred to was marked Tweedy
Exhibit No. 9 for identification.)

# TOP SECRET

![AGR]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Baron. This cable begins with a reference to *Sidney*

2 *Gottlieb*, and he: "Departed Leop for PBPRIME 5 October, view

3 expiration date his materials. However, left certain items of

4 continuing usefulness. Guthman plans continue try implement

5 op."

6 Do you have any independent recollection of receiving

7 this cable?

8 Mr. Tweedy. You know, it's terribly hard when you see

9 something that clearly occurred, and to me I read, it's

10 terribly hard at this stage to say, of course I remember. It all

11 reads perfectly familiar to me now.. To say quite specifically

12 I recall receiving the cable will perhaps go a little beyond

13 my memory.

14 Mr. Baron. Based upon having read this cable at that

15 time, which you assume you did, is that correct?

16 Mr. Tweedy. Absolutely.

17 Mr. Baron. You would have known that *Sidney Gottlieb* had

18 left the Congo on October 5th and that the Chief of Station

19 planned to continue to try to implement the operation.

20 Mr. Tweedy. Which means that he would continue his

21 exploratory operational work to see if he could come to some

22 solution..

23 Mr. Baron. You would read that sentence still to apply

24 to an exploratory phase, a phase in which the Chief of Station.

25 was exploring the feasibility of assassinating Lumumba as

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# TOP SECRET

1 opposed to moving to implementing?

2 Mr. Tweedy. Absolutely. Under no circumstances anything alse.

4 Mr. Dawson. Based upon this Exhibit and the previous one

5 than, Mr. Tweedy, is it your opinion that in this case no agent

6 was ever asked to assassinate Lumumba?

7 Mr. Tweedy. Yes, indeed. That also coincides with my best recollection which is not all that damn good. It is

9 perfectly obvious that Schotrofle was never requested to assassinate Lumumba, and I have no recollection of anybody having been asked to do this.

11 Mr. Dawson. Whether the discussion was hypothetical, as outlined in the previous exhibit.

13 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

15 Mr. Dawson. Why is it obvious that Schotroffe was rever asked to assassinate Lumumba in light of the sentence in this cable that reads, "Although did not pick up ball," -- referring to the fact that Schotrofle did not necessarily pick up the ball on assassinating Lumumba in his conversation with the Chief of Station, the Chief of Station nevertheless believed "he prepared take any role necessary within limits security accomplish objective."

Does that not indicate that Schotroffe was at least Vie as Some01.e who was prepared to undertake an assassination ... if he should be tasked with it?

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

TOP SECRET

46

1 Mr. Tweedy. I did not say he was not. This at that time
2 is the Chief of Station's best assessment of what the Schotroffe
reaction would be if the thing was formally put to him so
5 bluntly that he understood entirely what it was all about. I
do not recall, I do not believe any of this residual traffic
6 indicates that it ever got so far that we did that, and I think,
7 my own belief is it is a 50-50 proposition on whether Schotroffe
8 would agree to do it. I think probably in "limits security
9 accomplish objective" is probably the controlling factor. I
10 cannot really recall anymore.

11 Mr. Dawson. Off the record.

12 (Discussion off the record.)

13 Mr. Baron. Back on the record.

14 This report on October 7th by the Chief of Station refers

15 back to the exploratory conversations that he mentioned he

16 was --

17 Mr. Tweedy. Implied to by Fields.

18 Mr. Baron. -- authorized by Fields in the previous cable
of the 30th.

Mr. Tweedy. Right.

Mr. Baron. As Exhibit 9, we will introduce a cable signe." by B. Tweedy to the Chief of Station in the YOPROr channel.

(The document referred to was marked Tweedy Exhibit No. 9 for

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-4000

WARD & PAUL

NW Washing 20001

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

identification:)

47

TOP SECRET

![tv screen]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Baron. It begins, "Had good discussion your colleague

2 7 October. Comments follow:"

3 "A. Be *assured* did not expect YOPROP objectives

4 be reached in short period and understand current situation

5 fully warranted return your colleague."

6 And then it continues to discuss the fact that you ware

7 considering dispatching a third country national operator and

8 a senior case officer from the CIA who would "run this op and

9 outside agent full time under your direction."

10 Doas this cable refer to the fact that you debriefed

11 Sidney Gottlieb?

12 Mr. Tweedy. I am sure it does. That is what it must be,

13 yes.

14 Mr. Baron. The first paragraph is meant to indicate that

15 the Chief of Station should not feel that Headquarters would

16 be disappointed in the fact that he did not pull off an

17 assassination mission in such a short period of time?

18 Mr. Tweedy. I want to be careful to how I reply to that.

19 All I was saying to a very professional colleague was that we

20 had no illusions about the fact that the planning operation

21 of this would be very difficult, at hast, and would taks time

22 and thoroughly agree with the fact that prospects, immediate

23 prospects, were such that there was no alternative for Sidney

24 Gottlieb to return. That is all I was saying.

25 But to say what I was trying to express to him was the

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

TOP SECRET

49
1 fact that we were not overly disappointed that Lumumba was not
2 assassinated at this point is just not the level of intercourse
3 that I had with a very professional Chief of Station. That is
4 all.

5 Mr. Baron. Does not the paragraph A here indicate that
6 the objective of the mission that was discussed in the YQPROP
7 channel was to assassinate Lumumba in view or in light of the
8 fact that Gottlieb had gone to the Congo with materials that
9 were only going to be lethal for a short period of time?

10 Mr. Tweedy. That is what it says.

11 Mr. Baron. In other words, what I am trying to explore
12 with you is your characterization of this entire stage of the
13 operation as one of planning and exploration when we know that
14 Gottlieb took materials to the Congo which would only be lethal
15 for a short period of time and presumably was prepared to move
16 from exploration to implementation?

17 Mr. Tweedy. If, as a result of the Station focusing on
18 the problem for the first time, as a result of Headquarters'
19 request, they had come up with a plan that they thought was
20 exceedingly solid and which Headquarters approved, it is not
21 surprising, perhaps, that we wanted the materials there to take
22 advantage of such, if you like, an unlikely event. But this
23 would not change the normal sequence of events, which would be
24 that the Station would explore, keep Headquarters informed!
25 Headquarters would comment, it would then be a cresendo of

TOP SECRET

![image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

TOP SECRET

1 agreement or no agreement at all resulting from either a final

2 request for approval or either approval or no approval. This

would not have changed.

4 Mr. Baron. Because *Gottlieb* took lethal materials to

5 the Congo with him that had such a short period of lethality,

6 ware you not contemplating at that time that the operation

7 might wall move from the exploration phase to the implementation

8 phase just as soon as *Gottlieb*and Hedgeman determined that it

9 was feasible?

10 Mr. Tweedy. I think I would put it quite differently.

11 I think that I would say that we would have been remiss in not

12 being in a position. to exploit, if we reached the point where

13 we all agreed that the thing was possible.

14 If they had merely gone over and said we think we can do

15 it, by why do you not send the stuff from Headquarters, that

16 would have been sort of nonsense, if you follow me.

17 Mr. Baron. You would have expected the Chief of

18 Station to cable back for confirmation, but it was certainly

19 within your contemplation at the time that when *Gottlieb* went

20 to the Cor.go, when the Chief of Station cabled for confirma-

21 tion, you would probably give him a go ahead to assassinate

22 Lumumba?

23 Mr. Tweedy. I did not say that at all.

24 Mr. Baro... If the operation were feasible?

25 Mr. Tweedy. I did not say that at all. It would not hav

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# TOP SECRET

1 been my say-so. I do not know what the policy levels of my

Agency, who in turn would have been reflected in the policy

levels of the government, would have done if it had come to the

point where somebody said, we can do it, do you want us to do

5 it.

6 Mr. Baron. You would have referred that to Bissell?

7 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

8 Mr. Baron. lle would have referred it?

9 Mr. Tweedy. He would have referred it according to his

lights. That was not my business. He was his own laval of

authority. He was as aware of his authority as I was at my

leval. I only assume that this would have been discussed at

the highest level, certainly at the Agency. I assume that the

decision would have had to have been made by Allen Dulles and

who else he wished to consult in Washington.

These are pure assumptions on my part. Under no circum-

stances would I have given the go ahead.

Mr. Dawson. That is interesting.

Mr. Baron. I just have one more question on this line.

I realize we are going very closely over this ground. We Wol:l!

not be doing it if it weren't important in trying to get you to

clarify for the record exactly what shade of meaning you wait

to attach here.

Would it be fair to say that when you dispatched [Gottlis']

to the Corno you expected to hear back --

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Tweedy. I expected this would result in a dialogue
2 between the Station and ourselves as to what might be feasible.

3 Mr. Baron. You were hoping?

4 Mr. Tweedy. Gottlieb assisting the Chief of Station in
5 his explorations.

6 Mr. Baron. In view of the entire policy of the Agency at
7 that time, as indicated in the cables of Dulles and the cables
8 from yourself and Bissell to the Congo, you were hoping that
9 Gottlieb and the Chief of Station would find a feasible means
10 of carrying out an assassination mission and then inform you of
11 that.

12 Mr. Tweedy. I am not going to comment on the hope. I do
13 not know what my frame of mind was on that.

14 The purpose of the exercise was to see whether this was
15 possible. One thing was clear, that I was the instrument of
16 policy in carrying out the exploration which was entirely a
17 professional matter. If the exploration had reached a point
18 where we felt that we could submit to higher authority a plan
19 which we thought made some sense, at that point higher authority
20 would have to take the ball and run with it and let us know
21 what they concluded.

22 Mr. Baron. By higher authority here, you mean any
23 authority higher than yourself?

24 Mr. Tweedy. It would start with me in my chain of command.

25 I would not be concerned with the National Security Advisor

TOP SECRET

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

TOP SECRET

53

1 to the President or anybody else, I was perfectly clear in my

2 mind bacause of what had occurred and the way that these matters

3 had been broached to the field by Mr. Dulles, that the thing

4 was in the national arena and was just not in the Agency's

5 alana.

6 What Mr. Dulles would have done and what he felt his

7 authorities ware from higher authority I cannot tell you.

8 Mr. Dawson. That would have been a matter that would have

9 bean between Mr. Bissell and Mr. Dulles, in that correct?

10 Mr. Tweedy. In the first instance, it would have been

11 Datwaan Mr. Dulles and the outside world, the Executive.

12 Mr. Dawso::. The chain of command would have been, you

13 would have talked to Bissell, you would not have been expecte'

14 or would have asked what Mr. Dulles' view word?

15 Mr. Tweedy. Mind you, we were also an Agency that was very flexible. I am not saying Mr. Dulles might not have talked

16 to me about this, that was because Mr. Bissell was not immediately available, or something of this kind.

17 What I am saying is at the working level, the operation level, the Divisional and the Station level, we had come un with a plan which made professional sense to us which we felt sound enough so that we would present it to our masters, we would have done 90 and the resultant instruction to the fie would have dapemled on their reaction as far as I was concerne within the Agency. As far as Mr. Dulles was concerned, I car:

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

54

1 tell you.

In other words, the degree to which he thought he would have to refer further to Washington on, I have no idea.

Mr. Baron. It was your job to find a feasible way to carry out an assassination; it was the job of Bissell and those above him to decide whether to go ahead, as far as you ware concerned?

Mr. Tweedy. As far as I was concerned, that is the way it started.

Mr. Dawson. You have no independent or specific recollection that you ever went to Mr. Bissell and said, we do not hev a shot at this, or we do, and we could do it this way, and him saying One thing or another? You have no recollection either way?

Mr. Tweedy. Mr. Bissell read the same traffic I did.

Mr. Dawson. I did not know that.

Mr. Tweedy. He read these cables. When I say he read every single one of them word for word -- all I can say is he had full access to these cables and anything he had not read or had any reason to believe he had not read, I would have kent him generally briefed on the progress of the planning. Naturally, he would have been interested. He would not have followed it in detail.

Mr. Dawson. Would Mr. Dulles have had any access to these cables?

Mr. Tweedy. Not routinely. I think he would have expected.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

TOP SECRET

55

1 Mr. Bissell to keep him orally informed on a thing like this.

2 He did not want any more paper floating around in those days.

3 Mr. Dulles was in even another building. Now, we were all down

4 at the Reflecting Pool at that point, were we not, and Mr.

5 Dulles was on E Street. It doesn't make any difference. The

6 number of papers on this YQPROP thing would have been restricted

7 to the absolute minimum. I do not think Mr. Dulles would have

8 expedted to be bothered with the operational details. What he

9 would have expected from Mr. Bissell was progress on planning

1 the elimination of Lumumba by whatever means.

11 Mr. Dawson. Was the routine way that that information

12 would have been given to Mr. Dulles -- for instance, what I'm

13 thinking was, were there staff meetings at which you attended

14 with Mr. Bissell in Mr. Dulles' prasa.ice concerning what was

15 happening generally on a routine quarterly or weakly basis?

16 Mr. Tweedy. Mr. Bissell would have seen Mr. Dulles by and

17 large svery day.

18 Mr. Dawson. They would not review meetings on a weekly or
routine basis?

19 Mr. Tweedy. He had his own staff meating every morning,

20 Mr. Dulles did. These were attended by his Deputy Directors, o

21 which Mr. Bissell was ouz..

22 I used to see Mr. Bissell -- he had a staff meating once
a week which all Chiefs of Division attended. Nothing like
this would be discussed at those. I had my own private meuti::

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# TOP SECRET

1 with him on these matters whenever it seemed necessary by one
2 or the other of us.

Mr. Baron. Returning to the cable of October 7th, 1960, which you sent to the Chief of Station, the reference to a
5 senior case officer who might be dispatched to the Congo, is that
6 a reference to the fact that Bissell was considering dispatching
7 Justin O'Donnall?

Mr. Tweedy. No other candidate, no other. I assume that is who it is.

Mr. Baron. O'Donnell's account that he was asked by
Bissell to go to the Congo to carry off the assassination of
:: Lumumba would fit here?

Mr. Tweedy. Sure.

Mr. Baron. The third country national referred to in this cable and in other cables as someone you are considering dispatching to the Congo to help with the operation, would that be QJWIN or WIROGUB?

Mr. Tweedy. As I told you before, definitely not WDROGUE.
Iresumably this other fellow, whose identity and what he was is very, very unclear to me.

Mr. Baror. The agent that was run by Arnold Silver

Mr. Tweedy. Yes. This would have been the ma: that wou!! have worked with Justin O'Donnell if it had all happened.

Mr. Baron. That was QJWIN. I will represent to you that QJWIN was the agent who was supervised by Justin O'Donnell.

# TOP SECRET

![UGR]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

TOP SECRET

57

1 Mr. Tweedy. We read that that time, which is my only

2 recollection of it. That is the person I am sure.

3 Mr. Baron. Let me correct myself here.

4 I will represent to you that QJWIN was the agent that was

5 recruited by Arnold Silver and sent by Silver to the Congo for

6 use by O'Donnell and perhaps by the Chief of Station.

7 Is that consistent with your recollection?

8 Mr. Tweedy. No, it is not consistent with my recollection.

9 It is certainly consistent with what I read the last time I saw

10 you, which I have no reason to dispute. I just cannot remember

11 the blighter at all.

12 Mr. Baron. As Exhibit 10, let us introduce a cable of

13 October 15th, 1960, which is not sent in the YOPROP channel.

14 It is marked RIBATWEFLAT in the space whers sensitivity

15 indicators are usually placed.

(The document referred

to was marked Tweedy

Exhibit No. 10 for

identification.)

TOP SECRET
![logo of the company]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Baron. This cable requests the views of the Chief of

2 Station on suggestions A, B and C for various covert operations.

3 In paragraph C, there is a reference to

4 Mr. Tweedy, we have received the representation from the

5 CIA that that was a cryptonym used to refer to Lumumba.

6 Is that consistent with your intereptation of the cable?

7 Mr. Baron. It is indeed.

8 Mr. Tweedy. This paragraph C says in part: "Only direct

9 action we can now stand behind is to support immobolizing or

10 arresting , desirable as more definitiva action might be.

11 Any action taken would have to be entirely Congolese."

12 Now, you signed this cable, but it was not sent in the

13 special sensitivity channel that dealt with Gottliab's mission to the Congo?

14 Before we discuss this cable, let us also introduce into

15 the record as Exhibit 1l another cable which you signed on

16 October 15, 1960 which was sent in the YOPROP channel to the Chief of Station.

(The document referred to was marked Tweedy Exhibit No. 11 for identiticetic…)

# TOP SECRET

![photo of logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1 Mr. Baron. This contains the following language: "You

2 will note from cable through normal channel currently being

3 transmitted" then it continues "on YQPROP suggestions. You

4 will probably receive more along these lines as stumbling

02

5 bloc WIROAK represents increasingly apparent all studying

6 Congo situation closely and his disposition spontaneously

7 becomes number one consideration."

8 Mr. Tweedy. I think by that, I think it is perfectly God-

9 awful English.

10 Mr. Baron. The cable continues --

11 Mr. Tweedy. Obviously that means that everyone one talked

12 to said there is no solution to the Congo as long as Lumumba

13 stays in a position of power or influence there. That is what

14 that means.

15 Mr. Baron. The cable continues: "Raise above so you not

16 confused by any apparent duplication. This channel remains

17 for specific purpose you discussed with colleague and also

18 remains highest priority."

19 Now, does this pair of cables indicate that at this point

20 despite the indication in the first cable that we looked at that

21 "direct action would be limited to entirely Congolese action"

22 the actual position of yourself and others at Headquarters

23 involved in this operation was that exploration of an assassina-

24 tion mission remained the highest priority for the Chief of

25 Station?

TOP SECRET

![signature]

59


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Tweedy. I think that is accurate.

2 We had come to the end of the road, at least-temporarily

3 on the YQPROP aspect and for the time being we were in no
4 position to approve anything but what was discussed in the
5 FLAP cable. Nonetheless, as long as the threat to the Congo
6 from Lumumba existed, there remained a high priority to search
7 for means to take care of the YQPROP planning aspects.

8 Mr. Baron. When the cable refers to the specific purpose
9 you discussed with colleague --

10 Mr. Tweedy. This is assassination with Gottlieb, I am
11 sure.

12 Mr. Baron. It then says: This purpose remains highest
13 priority. Would that not indicate to the Chief of Station
14 that he should proceed to find a way that Lumumba could be
15 assassinated?

16 Mr. Tweedy. What this would mean to the Chief of Station
17 was that he should retain exploration of possible means of
18 assassinating Lumumba as highest priority. He should continue
19 to seek means to do this, not to do it.

20 Mr. Baron. Again, you are maintaining you have just made
21 yourself clear, as far as you were concerned, you were still
22 asking him to explore and not implement at this point?

23 Mr. Tweedy. Nothing else but.

24 Mr. Baron. Who would have had access to or received
25 distribution of the first cable we looked at which travelled in:

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1 the 02
WIFLAT channel?

2 Mr. Tweedy. It would have been restricted, but not as
restricted as the other.

3 Mr. Baron. Would somebody at the Embassy conceivably

4 have been cut in on cable traffic in the channel that dealt with

5 WIFLAT operations?

6 Mr. Tweedy. Could be, certainly.

7 Mr.. Baron. In other words, the purpose of sending a

8 second cable on the same day which dealt with action against
Lumumba was what?

9 Mr. Tweedy. The simple reason I think - I say I think,

10 bacause I cannot tell you so - as I said a few minutes ago,

11 obviously you'd come temporarily to the end of the line on

12 YQPROP. Measures taken to shore up 01
WIFLAT position in the

13 Congo, *Mabutu*, would have served to support the general objective,

14 of containing Lumumba by whatever means. It is all part of the
same purpose.

15 Once again referring to the original cable from Mr. Dulles
which said all means, in effect, and I think the reason I'm
putting this in the open channel, the open channel is still -

16 Mr. Baron.. Simply the ordinary channel used between
yourself --

17 Mr. Tweedy. Still a restricted channel. RIBAT is a
restricted thing, in any event. This could have been discussed
with the Ambassador or the Embassy, if any aspect of it seemed

TOP SECRET

3/5R

WARD & PAUL

410 First Street, S.E. Washington, D.C. 20003

61
NW


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

TOP SECRET

1 appropriate by the Chief of Station.

2 Mr. Baron. By contrast, the YOPROP cable would only have

3 been seen by the Chief of Station?

4 Mr. Tweedy. The Embassy would not have been shown this

5 cable anyway. We do not show the traffic to the Embassy; we

6 discussed it.

7 Mr. Baron. It would have been propr for the FLAT cable

8 to be conveyed in some manner?

9 Mr. Tweedy. To be discussed.

10 Mr. Baron. Between the Chief of Station and perhaps the

11 Ambassador?

12 Mr. Tweedy. Discussed; only orally.

13 Mr. Baron. By contrast, the YOPROP cable clearly would

14 have been restricted to the Chief of Station?

15 Mr. Tweedy. I have no reason to believe that the YOPROP

16 business was discussed with the Ambassador, I do not

17 believe it was, although Mr. Dulles, in his original cable, sai!

18 he could, if he wanted to.

19 Mr. Baron. Let us introduce as the final exhibit for

20 the moment Exhibit 12, a cable of October 17, 1960 going to

21 Jadwin from the Chief of Station.

22 In this cable, the Chief of Station is responding to your

23 suggestion that a senior case officer might be dispatched to

24 the Congo to handle the YOPROP operation. He says it is an

25 excellent idea. Is that a fair interpretation?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 207) 544-6000

1 Mr. Tweedy. Yes.

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

1

14

1:.

17

با

1

1

2

:..

::

(The document referred
to was marked Tweedy
Exhibit No. 12 for
identification.)

63

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# TOP SECRET

64

1 Mr. Baron. The Chief of Station then makes a suggestion

2 in the fourth paragraph for equipment that might be provided if

3 such a case officer were to be sent. He says, "If case officer

4 sant, recommend Headquarters pouch soonest high powered foreign

5 make rifle with telescopic sight and silencer. Hunting good

6 here when lights right. However as hunting rifles now forbidden.

7 would keep rifle in office pending opening of hunting season."

8 Would you take that to be a racommendation by the Chief

9 of Station, if a case officer was sent to the Congo to concen-

10 trate on the YOPROP operation, he should be provided with the

11 kind of weapon that would be suited for a sniper shot at

12 Lumumba?

13 Mr. Tweedy. Yes. Not necessarily to be fired by the

14 case officer, obviously not, but at least used in the operatio..

15 Mr. Baron. This reference to the hunting season can be

16 taken as a reference obliquely to the fact that Lumumba was in

17 UN custody and that there would not be, in effect, "open
season." or him until he showed his face outside of IN custody.

18 Would that be a fair interpretation?

19 Mr. Tweedy. I would not have interpreted it quite the

20 same way. I would have interpreted it this way, which was if

21 it, as a result of Headquarters suggestion that a rifle be

22 provided to the Station, the Station would come up with an

23 operational plan involving the use of the rifle which Headquarters

24 would approve, and that thus, in effact, the operation was o

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

TOP SECRET

1 by a rifle, that would be the opening of the hunting season.

2 In other words, the point where they knew how it could be used

and Headquarters had approved its use.

4 Mr. Baron. I have one other general question before we

5 take a break, and that is, returning to *Sidney Gottliab's*

6 account of his conversation with Richard Bissell about making

7 preparations for carrying off an assassination against an

8 African foreign leader if it were required, *Gottlieb* said in

9 that context that he had higher authority for such an operation.

10 *Gottlieb* also said that he clearly interpreted Bissell to mean:

11 that Bissell had Presidential authority for such an operation?

12 Did you have any knowledge of such a conversation between

13 *Gottlieb* and Bissell from any source?

14 Mr. Tweedy. I do not recall that *Gottlieb* and I ever

15 discussed higher authority and approval. I do not say that it

16 did not occur. If *Gottlieb* said that he had this impression

17 in talking to Bissell, I cannot say no, but I cannot comment

18 on it further.

19 Mr. Baron.. For the moment, we have no further questions

20 and we will take a break now and pick up again before the full

21 Committee and Executive Session this afternoon.

22 Thank you very much for your patience in going through these

23 documents one by one. It has been extremely helpful to us.

24 (Whereupon, at 1:40 p.m. the hearing concluded.)

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# NW

CLASSIFIED MESS

W. DOLLES

SECRET

DC1

• 330!

LEOPOLDVILLA

4.SCTOR

CCP

2. 
LEOP

PRIORITY

PRIORITY
OPNATIONAL

C:12 CIR
47587 7507

SYCAT

FOR 308ZRT GUTHMAN FROM ASCHAM

1. IN HIGH QUARTERS HERE IT IS THE CLEAR-CUT CONCLUSION THAT IF LLL CONTINUES TO HOLD MICH OFFICE, THE INEVITABLE RESULT WILL AT BEST BE CLAUS AND AT WORST PAVE ΤΗΣ WAY TO COMMUNIST TANEU OF THE CONGO YITH DISASTROUS CONSEQUENCES FOR THE PRESTIGE OF fr UN AND FOR THE INTERESTS OF THE FREE XX WORLD GENERALLY. CONSEQUENTLY WE CONCLUDE THAT HIS REMOVAL MUST BE AN URGENT AND PROACTIVE AND THAT UNDEג EXISTING CONDITIONS THUS SHOULD DE A HIGH PRIORITY OF OUR COVERT ACTION.

2. HE IS TO GIVE TOU FIDER AUTHORITY ALONG LAOP 0772 .פאן :OP 9745 AND 46115 גוס INCLUDING EVEN MOR ACTION GITCLY נפגעבר COVERT WX REAΙΔΟΣ ΤΗΑT TARGETS OPPON SUNITY MAX PRESENT TENSILVES TO YOU ככג. אט פאהION TO MS ΩΣ AUTHORIZED, געוויגען בד AUTHORIZE EXPEN LKAUN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

DIRECTOR

PAGE 2

INFO
CUT 62366
DIR 47507

12 TO A TOTAL OF $100,000 TO CARRY OUT ANY CRAGI PROGRAMS ON WHICH YOU DO NOT HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULA M. ADVISE YOUR CASH NEEDS.

3. TO THE EXTENT THAT AMBASSADOR MAY DESIRE TO BE CONSULTED, YOU SHOULD SEEK HIS CONCURRENCE. IF IN ANY PARTICULAR CASE HE DOES NOT WISH TO BE CONSULTED YOU CAN ACT ON YOUR OWN AUTHORITY WHERE TIME DOES NOT PERMIT REFERRAL HERE.

4. THIS MESSAGE HAS BEEN SEEN AND APPROVED AT COMPETENT

EVEL ODACIO.

END OF MESSAGE

* (IN 39706)
* (IN 41422)
* (OUT 59694)

CABLE SECRETARIAT: LIMIT DISTRIBUTION TO MR. HELMS.

![stamp of CIA with date SEP 24 1915]

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

# SECRET

2443
CATE. 19 September 1960

10. LEOFOLDVILLE

M. DIRECTOR

CONI, CIAT

10. DDP. SIC 2

(PRITY) LEOP

INFO

DEFERRED Sep 19 19

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

CITE CIR 01

EYES ONLY GUTHMAN FROM JADWIN

RYBAT YOPROP

1. IDEN PROCEEDING BRAZZAVILLE SHORTLY AND SHOULD ARRIVE APPROX 27 SEPT. HE WILL MAKE HIS WAY LEOP SOONEST THEREAFTER AND CALL YOU AT OFFICE ON ARRIVAL. WILL ANNOUNCE HIMSELF AS "SID FROM PARIS". BRIEF COVER DISCUSSION WILL THEN BE HELD IN WHICH "SID" SUGGESTS MEETING YOU AT OFFICE AND YOU WILL RESPOND BY AGREEING AND SETTING THE TIME. HOWEVER THE ACTUAL MEETING WILL TAKE PLACE ONE HOUR EARLIER THAN TIME MENTIONED IN THIS CONVERSATION AND IN FRONT MAIN ENTRANCE NEW STANLEY HOTEL. "SID" WILL CARRY UNROLLED COPY OF "PARIS MATCH" IN LEFT HAND.

2. IT URGENT YOU SHOULD SEE IDEN SOONEST POSSIBLE AFTER HE PHONES YOU. HE WILL FULLY IDENTIFY HIMSELF AND EXPLAIN HIS AMENT TO YOU. HOWEVER HIS ETA NOT FIRM AND YOU SHOULD NOT BE CONCERNED BY SOME DELAY.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

IRECTOR

INFO PAGE TWO

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

3. ACKNOWLEDGE ABOVE SOONEST, WITH ANY REVISIONS YOU
   WISH MAKE IN ABOVE PROCEDURES. CONTINUE USE YOPROP INDICATOR
   ALL TRAFFIC THIS OP, WHICH YOU INSTRUCTED HOLD ENTIRELY TO
   YOURSELF.

END OF MESSAGE


DD/P
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

C/AF
AUTHENTICATING OFFICEE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

![photo of signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

NW

# SECRET

1. CIAF 589
2. 2445
3. 19 September 1960

LEOPOLDVILELE

DIRECTOR

CAF

DDD, S/C 2

(PRITY) LEOP INFO

RYBAT YOPROP

RE DIR 71464 (OUT 01443 )

IDEN SIDNEY BRAUN.

END OF MESSAGE

> [Figure: Message routing information including precedence: Immediate, date time stamp: Sep 19 1960]

DD/P
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

C/AF
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

C/AS

2445

22 September 1948

LEOPOLDVILLE

DIRECTOR

202, 5/2 2

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

IMMEDIATE

OUT 74037

CITE DIR 0000

(PRITY) LEOP INFO

ETIS ONLY GUTHMAN

AYBAT TOPROP

RE LEOP 0025 (IN 18789)

IF VERY WELCOME. COMMENTS FOLLOW.

A. RE ZA. CONCUR MAXIMUM USE SCHOTROFF [^04] FOR COLLECTI

OF INTEL. MUST REMAIN UNWITTING FOR TIME BEING ALTHOUGH

YOU WILL BE ASSESSING FOR MORE ACTIVE ROLE. ALTHOUGH SCHOT [^04]

HAS APPARENTLY MAINTAINED SPLENDED COVER, MUST PEMEMBER

EXAMINATION HIS BACKGROUND WILL REVEAL HE RESIDENTIALLY

PEPRIME ONE LEG ON PEPRIME PASSPORT AND WIFE EX ODACID [^08] MI.

B. RE ZB. CONCUR THIS POSSIBILITY WORTH WATCHING BUT IF

DECIDED SUPPORT FOR YOPROP OBJECTIVES, BELIEVE ESSENTIAL SIN

BE PROVIDED THROUGH THIRD NATIONAL CHANNEL WITH PEPRIME ROLE.

COMPLETELY CONCEALED, IMAGINE YOU CONCUR OUR BELIEF SUBJECT'S

SECURITY LIKELY BE POOR AND LEAKS WOULD ALMOST CERTAINLY

CLUDE TRENCH 24 1915

CIA

[^04]: Figure: Stamp

[^08]: Figure: Illegible stamp

HW


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

PAGE TWO

C. RE 2C. YOU MUST HAVE MUCH BETTER PERSPECTIVE

PROMONTORIO THAN WE, BUT TRACES INDICATE BELGIANS CONNECT

AND THUS OUR COMMENTS ALONG LINES B ABOVE.

D. RE 2D. UNDERSTAND STATION HAS HAD REASONS QUESTION

NGLAM REPORTING RELIABILITY AND WE MUST ASSUME ETHIOPIAN

CONNECTIONS COMMENTS AS ABOVE.

E. RE 2E. FROM TRACES HERE ASSUME SUBJECT MAY BE AN

ARM SUPPORTER OF KASAVUBU. NOTE PREVIOUS CZECH CONNECTIONS.

COMMENTS ALSO AS ABOVE.

F. RE 2F. AWAITING YOUR FURTHER EXPLORATION CNA CAPTAR

CERTAINLY INTERESTED ANY POSSIBLE CNA SOLUTION. THIS SHOULD

PROVIDE MAXIMUM CREDIBILITY.

G. RE 2G. ASSUME YOU AGREE SUBJECT LEOP 0007 LIKELY BE

MOST RISKY VEHICLE THESE PURPOS.

SEP 24 1973

CIA RE PARIS THREE AND FOUR, INTERESTED YOUR CONTINUING


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

DIONLY

ICULINE

OMRATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

NIJAS

INFO PAGE THREE

ASSESSMENT BOTTLE AS GENUINE THIRD NATIONAL ASSET ON GROUND

WHATEVER ROLE THIS OP YOU MIGHT CONSIDER HIM. SOMEWHAT CONCER

YOUR RECENT REPORT HE MISUNDERSTOOD OR DISOBETED INSTRUCTIO

REメアLOITATION, BUT HIS APPARENT INCREASING ACCESS TO

MILLE OBREST. WE ARE CONSIDERING A THIRD NATIONAL

CUTOUT CONETTAVALLABLE HERE WHO MIGHT FILL BILL AND WILL

SHORTLY.

3. NOT INTENDED YOU CONSTRUE ABOTE COMMENTS AS BASICALLY

NEGATIVΞ. του ΑAND COLLEAGUE UNDERSTAND WE CANNOT READ OVERC

THOULDER AS YOU PLAN AND ASSEAS OPPORTUNITIES. OUR PRIMARY CONC

MUST BE CONCEALMENT PBPRIME ROLE, UNLESS OUTSTANDING OPPORTUN

DXG WHICH MAKES CALCULATED ALEX FIRST CLASS SET. READY

ΙΝΤΣΣΤΑΙΝ ΑΝΥ ΣEΞΙΟΥΣ ΓΙΟFOSALS TOU MAKE BASED OUR HIGH REG.

DOTH YOUR PROFESSIONAL JUDGMENTS.

![signature]

CAY

CCORCINATIN

RET

1975

AUTENTICATING OFFICI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

*   A.W. Dulles
*   DCI 570
*   2001
*   24 Sept. 60

ROUTING

1. 
2. 
3. 
ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

CUT 7371
CUT70573

OPIM LEOP
07
BYBAT/FLAT

INFO

LITP DIB
02521
02521

FROM ASCHAM AND JADWIN

RE: LEOP 0002 (LN 17384)

1. APPRECIATE EXCELLENT REPORTING YOUR REFERENCE 04
   AND COMMEND SCHOTROFFE HIS ALERT ROLE. WE WISH GIVE EVERY POSSIBLE SUPPORT IN ELIMINATING LUMUMBA FROM ANY POSSIBILITY RESUMING GOVERNMENTAL POSITION OR IF HE FAILS IN LEOP. SETTING HIMSELF IN STANLEYVILLE OR ELSEWHERE.

2. WHILE FULLY AWARE OF NEFARIOUS PLOTTING GHANA, GUINEA, UAR. TO RESTORE LUMUMBA, GREATLY DISTURBED AT REFERENCE TO MOROCCO AND PARTICULARLY TUNISIA AS MEMBERS OF THIS CLIQUE. CAN YOU SUGGEST ANY ACTION WE CAN PROMOTE ODACID OR TAKE OTHERWISE TO HELP DETACH THEM FROM LUMUMBA

CAM47
IV:

OM

SEP 24 1915

CIA

COORDINATING OFFICERS

![logo of CIA]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

LEOPOLDVILLE

DIRECTOR

PAGE 2

INFO

3. DISTURBED AT POSSIBILITY THAT FLAT MIGHT LOST CONTROL OF HIS FORCES DUE POSSIBLE HIGHER PAY BEING OFFERED SOURCES HOSTILE TO US AS SUGGESTED PARA 4 YOUR REFERENCE. IS PAY SITUATION IN ORDER AND CAN ANYTHING FURTHER BE DONE ABOUT THIS THROUGH UN OR COVERTLY THROUGHIFIATE?

1. AGREE POSITION OUTLINED LAST SENTENCE REFERENC WHICH WE ASSUME IS FULLY ENDORSED BY AMBASSADOR.

5. AT YOUR DISCRETION, SHARE THIS MESSAGE WITH AMBASSADOR.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: SCHOTROPHE 2) reported or. 23 September that Pher-.. Mulele, Gabriel Yumhu and Antoine Cizenga of the PSA were mounting a coup against Mobutu and the Council of Commissioners

![CIA logo] SEP 24 1975

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN IME ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

RECHT IROM
PAGE-2 1975
CIA
PRIORITY
IN 18980
LEOP 2226
COTE
D. CLAM IN CONTACT 5 BALUBAS WHO HE SAYS ANXIOUS LAUNCH REF PROGRAM IF PROPER INSTRUMENTS AVAILABLE.
E. HECTOR GEORGES MASSIANGA RECENTLY TOLD ODACID OFFICER AND WITHMAN HE IN CONTACT SMALL GROUP CNA TROOPS WHO WOULD
* ANTICIPATE IF RECEIVE FINANCIAL ENCOURAGEMENT. GUTIMAN WITHER W
  FROM TALK, AND ARRANGED HAVE ODACID OFFICER INTRODUCE MASSIANGA WA RESULTS. THIS COULD BE PUSHED THROUGH ANOTHER.
  AM TOLD PETTELHEIM HE IN CONTACT VIA CAPTAIN
  MEMENIS GROUP OF KASAVUBU, DEFENSE MINISTER OF COMMISSIONERS, BOLIKANGO AND CAPTAINI. ASKED CLAM POT HIM IN CONTACT BELGIAN, FRENCH OR OTHER GROUPS WILLING TRAIN AND ARM 1500 TROOPS LOCATED KITONA AREA. SAID HIS GROUP WANTS MOVE THEM LEOP IN ABOUT 8 DAYS TO TRY TAKE OVER CITY. PLAN NOT FEASIBLE AND DOUBT KASAVUBU AGREES. BUT MIGHT GET CAPTAIN INVOLVED REF OP.
  G. SLIGHT CHANCE WIBOTTLE MIGHT TRY THROUGH SUBJECT
  LEOP 2339 (IN 18077)
3. PLAN PROCEED ON BASIS PRIORITIES AS LISTED ABOVE, UNLESS INSTRUCTED TO CONTRARY!
   ![REPRODUCTION FORBIDDEN, SECRET]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

PAGE -3-

PRIORITY

IN 18909
LEOP-2220

04

IF PARA A INOT FEASIBLE, SCHONNHOFF POSSIBLE TO

FOR PLANS AWARE SCHONHOUBERT LIKE THIRD NAT

IMMEDIATELY AVATIABLE FOR CUT-OUT FUNCTIONS, SUCH PERSON

CONTRIBUTE TO DESIRED END OF MESSAGE.

RECEIVED FROM

SEP 22 1975

CIA

![illegible image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

# POLUVILLE

Sept 27

REC'D CABLE SECI.

PRIORITY

SEP 22 1975

CIA.

IN 13989

CITE LEOP 2026

FYES ONLY JAUDWIN FROM GUTHMAN

RYBAT YCPROP

REF: DIR 01443 (OUT 71464 )

1. IDEN REF CONTACTED 26 SEPTEMBER. WE ON SAME WAVE LENGTH. IMAN AFRAID WIFLAT WEAKENING UNDER AFRO-ARAH PRESSURE. WE MOVE MOST RAPID ACTION CONSISTENT WITH SECURITY INDICATED.

2. BALISTIC TALKS CONSIDERING POSSIBILITIES.

3. WE ALL FIND HIMUFFE FROM STANLEYVILLE AND HAVE HIM TAKE LOOTER WITH BIG BROTHER. WOULD THUS ACT AS INSIDE MAN TO PROFESIONAL. HAZOR EDGE. ALSO WOULD PROVIDE INFO ON FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL PROBLEM. GUTHMAN RECALLING SCHOTRUTE TO LEOP.

4. SUBJECT LEOP 0981 (IN 16686 ) SAID HE PLANNED ACTION WITHIN 6 DAYS. DATE PASSED AND NO ACTION BUT IF PRICE RIGHT MIGHT GET SHOW ON ROAD.

5. SENATOR PROMONTOR TO WHO UNWITTING GUTHMAN POLITICAL CONTACT VISITED STATION 26 SEPTEMBER. EXPRESSED VIEW NEED TAKE IMMEDIATE ACTION. SAID HAS NAMES 4-MAN SQUAD WHO WANT INTERFERE. IF PROMONITORIO GROUP USED WOULD ACHIEVE POSITIVE SETTLEMENT. REALIZE PREFERABLE USE THIRD NATION. NEED CUT-OUT SUCH AS ROWTON.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROM 31120.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

# DIRECTOR

LEOPOLDVILLE

C/AF (CR HSRK, AF DIV NOTIFIED 1940 30 SEP)

DDP, 3/C 2

SEP 30 23 40*60-

HEL'U CABLE SEL.I.

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

DIR

EYES ONLY JADWIN FROM GUTHMAN

RYBAT YOFROP

IN 28857

CIE

LEOP

SEP 22 1975

CIA

REF: DIR 23094 (OUT 74837 )

1. NO REALLY AIRTIGHT OP POSSIBLE WITH ASSETS NOW AVAIL LE MUST CHOOSE BETWEEN CANCELING OP OR ACCEPTING CALCULATED RISKS OF VARYING DEGREES.

2. RE PARA 1 REF: WE BELIEVE SCHOMRONFS BEST ASSET AVAILABLE. VIEW NECESSITY ACT IMMEDIATELY, IF AT ALL, URGE HOS AUTHORIZE EXPLORATORY CONVERSATIONS TO DETERMINE IF SCHOMRONFS WILLING TAKE ROLE AS ACTIVE AGENT OR CUT-OUT THIS OP. (WOULD APPROACH ON HYPOTHETICAL BASIS AND NOT REVEAL PLANS). IF HE APPEARS WILLING ACCEPT ROLE, WE BELIEVE IT NECESSARY REVEAL OBJECTIVE OP TO HIM IN ORDER OOTAIN FULL VALUE HIS POTENTIAL. ALTHOUGH TOO EARLY SEE SPECIFIC DETAILS SCHOMROFFE PART IN OP, BELIEVE RISK MINIMIZED IF HE LEAVES AREA BEFORE EFFECTS OP ARE APPARENT.

3. FEAR MIGHT HAVE OVERSTATED POSSIBILITY WIPOTTLE PARTICIPATION. BELIEVE HE UNSUITED ROLE AT PRESENT TIME, VIEW POSSIBILITY MAY ALSO BE REPORTING TO FRENCHOS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

# DIRECTOR

LEOPOLDVILLE

C/AF (CR HE, AF DIV NOTIFIED 1940 30 SEP)

DOP, 3/C 2

SEP 30 73 40

KEL'D CHOLE SEL.I.

CPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

DIR

IN 2857
COTE LEOP

EYES ONLY JADWIN FROM GUTHΜΑΝ

SEP 22 1915

RYBAT YOPROP

CIA

REF: DIR 23094 (OUT 74837)

1. NO REALLY AIRTIGHT OP POSSIBLE WITH ASSETS NOW AVAIL E MUST CHOOSE BETWEEN CANCELING OP OR ACCEPTING CALCULATED RISK OF VARYING DEGREES.

2. RE PARA I REF: WE BELIEVE BEST ASSET AVAILABLE. VIEW NECESSITY ACT IMMEDIATELY, IF AT ALL, URGE US AUTHORIZE EXPLORATORY CONVERSATIONS TO DETERMINE IF WILLING TAKE ROLE AS ACTIVE AGENT OR CUT-OUT THIS OP. (WOULD APPROACH ON HYPOTHETICAL BASIS AND NOT REVEAL PLANS). IF HE APPEARS WILLING ACCEPT ROLE, WE BELIEVE IT NECESSARY REVEAL CEJECTIVE OP TO HIM IN ORDER OBTAIN FULL VALUE HIS POTENTIAL. ALTHOUGH TOO EARLY SEE SPECIFIC CETAILS PART IN OP, BELIEVE RISK MINIMIZED IF HE LEAVES AREA BEFORE EFFECTS OP ARE APPARENT.

3. FEAR MIGHT HAVE OVERSTATED POSSIBILITY LOTTLE PARTICIPATION. BELIEVE. HE UNSUITED ROLE AT PRESENT TIME, VIEN POSSIBILITY MAY ALSO BE REPORTING TO

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

PAGE 2

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIAT

4. NEW POSSIBILITY EXISTS VIEW 29 SEPTEMBER GUTHMAN

KALISLE 1 TALKS. ALTHOUGH KALISLE 1 PREVIOUSLY FAVORED SUBJECT
REF OP, NOW BELIEVES ANGOLAN GROUP WOULD BE SUPPRESSED IN
CONGO AND REPLACED BY GUINEAN SUPPORTED GROUP IF SUBJECT EVER
REGAINS ASCENDANCY. EXPRESSED VIEW NEED TAKE IMMEDIATE ACTION.
THEREFORE PROPOSE EXPLORE KALISLE 1 THINKING SOONEST TO SEE HOW
FAR HE WILLING GO AND DETERMINE HIS ASSETS. ASSUMING KALISLE 1
MEETING POSITIVE, DOES HQS CONSIDER HIM BE TRUE THIRD COUNTRY
NATIONAL FROM POINT VIEW SECURITY OF OP? IF KALISLE 1 REACTION
FAVORABLE, BELIEVE THIS OFFERS MEANS ACHIEVE OBJECTIVE EARLY
PAR WITH SCHOTROFFE IN SO FAR AS ACCESS AND SECURITY CONCERNED

5. RE PARA 1F REF: AS OF NOW DO NOT HAVE ENOUGH INFO
   EVALUATE POTENTIAL OF CNA.

6. VIEW IMMINENT SCHOTROFFE AND KALISLE 1 MEETINGS, AL
   QUEST HQS REPLY OPIM VIA EQUERRY LINK.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

![logo of 8/6R]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

# 30 SEPTEMBER 1960

LEOPOLDVILLE

DIRECTOR

![image of CIA logo]

CCP, F/C

LEOP

EYES CILY GUTAMA

RYDAT YCHROP

INFO

CIA

RE LEOP 2052 (IN 20857)

CS COMMENT: URGED IOS AUTHORIZE EXPLOR
TALKS TO DETERMINE IF SCHOTROFFE WILLING
ROLE AS ACTIVE AGENT OR CUT-OUT.

1. YOU ARE AUTHORIZED HAVE EXPLORATORY TALKS WITH *SCHOTROFFE* TO ASSESS HIS ATTITUDE TOWARD POSSIBLE ACTIVE AGENT OR CUT-OUT ROLE. AGREE WITH YOU

INITIAL DISCUSSICAS SHOULD BE ON HYPOTHETICAL BASIS.

2. IT DOES APPEAR FROM HERE THAT OF POSSIBILITIES AVAILABLE *COSTAS*!!

WEST. WE STILL HAVE SOME WORRY ABOUT POPRIVE STAY TOGETHER WITH QUESTICI OF WIFE. CEVERE WILL VEIGH VERY CAREFULLY YOUR INITIAL ASSESMENT HIS

ATTITULE AS ULLL AS ANY SPECIFIC APPROACHES THAT MAY DERGE. LE VOULD HOPE TS.

A FEW CAIS STATIS SITUATION WOULD ALLOW FOR MODSPATE HASTE.

3. IN AUSENCE MORE DETAILS WE ARE RELUCTANT COZISICER *KALISLE* GE.

WHEREAS DE HAS BEEN LOS THE CONTACT AND IN HIS SPECIFIC FIELD IE IS IN MOST RESPECTS AN AGENT WE WOULD STILL HAVE BASIC QUESTIONS AS TO CONTROL A'D SECURITY. WE DO AGREE YOU SHOULD EXPLORE HIS MINDING VITH QUESTIGIS HERE

COLIQUE THAN DIRECT. IF YOU FEEL WE ARE WRONG ON *KALISLE* OE ASSESSENT

ADVISE AFTER NEXT TALKS VITH KIN.

4. APPRECIATE WOR YOUR SFFROUCH TO FROOLEIA.

(End of MESSAGE)

GLEN FIELDS C/15

CODEDTHATINO OFFICERS

S-C-C-41-C-T

AUTHENTICATINO OFFICER

REPRODUCTIONBY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMITED.

![signature of Glen Fields]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

# SECRET

7 OCT 60

DIRECTOR

LEOFOC...

C/AF

DO/P, 3/C 2

Ост Е 03 C860

RECIO CABLE SECT.

PRIORITY

IN 24171

LEOP

PRITY DIR

EYES ONLY JADWIN FROM GUTHMAN

RYZAT YOPROP

PEF: DIR 1358 (OUT 75900)

1. ICEN DIR 21443 (OUT 7:46. ) DEPARTED LEOP FOR POPRING 5 OCT, VIEW EXPIRATION DATE HIS MATERIALS. HOWEVER LEFT CEPAN ITEMS OF CONTINUING USEFULNESS. GUTHHAN PLANS CONTINUE TRYI IMPLEMENT OP.

2. CONDUCTED EXPLORATORY CONVERSATION WITH SKUESTE. PEF. AFTER EXPLORING ALL POSSIBILITIES, SOLUTION RECOMMENDED BY HOS. ALTHOUGH DID NOT PICK UP BALL, BELIEVE HE PREPARED TAKE ANY ROLE NECESSARY WITHIN LIMITS SECURIT ACCOAPLISH OBJECTIVE.

3. IF HOS BELIEVES PAPRIME STAY OR LOCATION. WIFE PERMANENT PAR HIS PARTICIPATION, WISH STRESS NECESSITY PROVIDE STATION WITH QUALIFIED THIRD COUNTRY NATICAL. RECRUITI SUCH ASSET LOCALLY NOT FEASIBLE VIEW SECURITY PROBLEM AND LIMITED NUMBER POTENTIAL ASSETS. ONLY OTHER POSSIBLE ASSET HERE IS 02 BOTTLE 1. GUTHHAN DOUBTS HE CAPABLE SUCH ACTION. ALSO SEAR MIGHT REVEAL DETAILS JO UNION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

SECRET

NW

149 150 07 OCT 68

Me

0. 
49

IN 24171

LOEP E

PAGE -2-

PLEASE ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

'S COMMENT: EYES ONLY APPEARS TO BE IMPROPERLY USED. IN YOUR REPLY
PLEASE ADVISE THE FIELD TO COMPLY WITH REGULATION 90-400.

..*MOS AUTHORIZED SUTNMAN TO HAVE EXPLORATORY TALKS WITH
TO ASSESS HIS ATTITUDE TOWARD POSSIBLE ACTIVE AGENT.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

```
GIN
445
7 October 1960
LEOPOLDVILLE
```

DIRECTION

(PRITT) LEOP

INFO

FROM

1975

PRIORITY

CITE DIR

RYBAT TOPROP

EYES ONLY GUTHMAN

XXXXXXX

1. HAD GOOD DISCUSSION YOUR COLLEAGUE 7 OCT. COMMENTS FOLLOW

A. BE ASSURED DID NOT EXPECT TOPROP OBJECTIVES BE REACHED IN SHORT PERIOD AND UNDERSTAND CURRENT SITUATION

FULLY WARRANTED RETURN YOUR COLLEAGUE.

B. UNDER PRESENT CIRCUMSTANCES SCHOTROUVE SHOULD CERTAINLY NOT BE MADE WITTING BUT FUTURE CIRCUMSTANCE. TARGET WILL CONTROL WHETHER YOU WISH RAISE THIS POSSIBILITY AGAIN FOR OF INTEL OR MORE ACTIVE ROLE.

C. MEANWHILE WE CONSIDERING DISPATCHING THIRD NATO OPERATOR WHO, WHEN HE ARRIVES, SHOULD THEN BE ASSESSED BY YOU OVER PERIOD TO SEE WHETHER HE MIGHT PLAY ACTIVE OR

![photo of secret mark]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

RECEIVED FROM
SEP 22 1975

PAGE TWO

CUTOUT ROLE ON FULL TIME BASIS. I TOU CONCLUDE IT
SUITABLE AND BEARING IN MIND HEAVY EXTRA LOAD THIS PLACE
ON YOU, WOULD EXPECT DISPATCH TOY SENIOR CAS OFFICER R
TIES CP AND OUTSIDE AGENT FULL TIME UNDER YOUR DIRECTION.
IN ANY CASE THIRD NATIONAL WOULD NOT BE NIITING PRIOR D
FROM HERE AND WOULD OSTENSIBLI EL SCHEDULED PERFORM
GALOS ROT.E.. VILL ADVISE PROCESS ON THE MAN.

2. COLLEAGUE MENTIONED ARRIVAL YOUR FAMILY AND HOPE TAR
   LUANDA WEEKEND WARILY SUPPORT THIS AND ANY OTHER SHORT
   LEAVE YOU CAN SCROUNGE. DO NOT WAIT TILL YOU TOO TIRED TO

BENEFIT FROM IT.

END OF MESSAGE

STATAJINA OFFICER SOCIDIMATINO OFFICE AUIRINJICATIMO OFFICER
DECAZT
PEPROCUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 13 SCHISITTO..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

# ROOSEVELT I. Por
# RISMAR AFRICA
STRM 3662
15 October 1946

LEOPOLDVILLE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

OUTB1476
CITE DIA CS205
CS235

LIOP INFO
RIBAT FLAT

RE A. LEOP 3101 (IN 25261)
B. LEOP 0104 (IN 23967)
C. LEOP 0072 (IN 23052)

WOULD APPRECIATE YOUR VIEWS FOLLOWING:

A. FORMATION MEDIUM PRAETORIAN GUARD BY GIVING EXTRA PAY

PERHAPS 25-50 PERCENT MORE THAN NOW BEING RECEIVED TO CORPS

OF OFFICERS AND ENLISTED MEN UP TO 200. DO NOT FEEL THAT NATIONAL
MILITARY SCHOOL GROUP CAN BE USED FOR THIS. RAISE QUESTION WHETHER
LOYALTY ENLISTED MEN COULD BE SO HELD FOR LONG. SUGGEST THIS
BEST HANDLED BY GIVING FUNDS TO FLAT 4 FOR HIM TO GIVE TO
PURPOSE THIS TO USE FLAT 4 TO KEEP SPINE STRENGTH

B. AMMUNITION: WHAT RESERVES AMMUNITION TO BE HELD UNDER
FLAT CONTROL WOULD BE REQUIRED. ASSUME 10,000 ROUNDS FOR
SMALL ARMS MIGHT SUFFICE. WE WOULD REQUIRE INFO CALIBRE AND

RV

SUP 24 1946

![logo of TSR]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

PAGE TWO

TYPE WEAPONS INVOLVED. POSSIBLE METHODS DELIVERY ARE FOR

NICLAM PLANE TO TRANSPORT FROM ADJACENT TERRITORY, OR POSSIBLY
FROM MATADI BY PLANE OR TRUCK. ALTERNATIVE WOULD BE GIVE

MONEY TO LAT 5 TO GIVE TO LAT 7 FOR HIM TO PURCHASE

DIRECT AND HAND OVER TO LAT

C. WIROAK - IN VIEW OUR DISTRUST SUBJECT REF A EXPLORE NICLAM.

KNOWLEDGE OF AND ACCESS TO FETICHEUR TO DETERMINE WHETHER
BUYING OFF FETICHEUR AS WIROAK SPIRITUAL SUPPORT MIGHT BE SERIOUS
BLOW TO HIM. ONLY DIRECT ACTION WE CAN NOW STAND BEHIND IS TO
SUPPORT IMMOBILIZING OR ARRESTING WIROAK, DESIRABLE AS MORE.
DEFINITIVE ACTION MIGHT BE. ANY ACTION TAKEN WOULD HAVE TO BE
ENTIRELY CONGOLESE. HOWEVER, WE WOULD WELCOME YOUR VIEWS FOR
OUR REVIEW ON ANY WAY THIS COULD POSSIBLY BE ACCOMPLISHED.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

51:
15 October 19h0

(PRITY) LIOP

RTAAT ZOPROP

EYES ONLY GUTHHAN

1. YOU WILL NOΤΣ ΓΛΟM CABLE THROUGH NORMAL CHANNEL CURRENTLY DEING TRANSMITTED A PARA ON Y PROP TYPE SUGGESTION. YOU WILL PROBABLY RECEIVE MORE ALONG THESE LINES AS STUMBL BLOCROAK REPRESENTS INCREASINGLY APPARENT ALL STUDYING SITUATION CLOSELY AND HIS DISPOSITION SPONTANEOUSLY 32CONEN ONE CONSIDERATION. FOR EXAMPLE WE HAD SOME AFRICAN TALKS WE TREICH SERVICET HIS WEEK AND RE CONGO THEY CAME UP WITH THIS IMMEDIATELY. (NO INDICATION AT ALL FRENCH SERVICE DOING ANT FO SPECIFIC ABOUT IT.;

2. RAIS ALOYE SO YOU NOT CONFUSED BY ANT APPARENT DU FION THIS CHANNEL REMAINS FOR SPECIFIC PURPOSE YOU DISCUS COLLEAGUE AND ALSO ΑΣΜΑΙΝΣ ΠΙIGHEST PRIORITY. REDAR 1302 YOUR REACTION TO POSSIBLE DIRECTED ASSIGNMENT SENIOR CASE...

SECRET

BABR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

SECRET

DIRECTOR

RECD FROM

SEP 22 1965
CIA

PAGE TWO

CITE DIR 06200

SOONEST TO CONCENTRATE ENTIRELY THIS ASPECT. WE STILL WORKING ON THIRD NATIONAL MENTIONED THAT REF, BUT WONDER WHETHER YOU THINK EARLY ARRIVAL CASE OFFICER WOULD MAKE SENSE. SEEMS TO US YOUR OTHER COMMITMENTS TOO HEAVY GIVE NECESSARY CONCENTRAT. YQPROP. ADVISE.

1. HAVE DISCUSSED NICLAM WITH BETTELHEIM AND POSSIBILITY OF COMMANDO TYPE GROUP FOR ABDUCTION WIROAK, EITHER VIA ASSAULT ON HOUSE UP CLIFF FROM RIVER OR, MORE PROBABLY, IS WIROAK

ATTEMPTS ANOTHER BREAKOUT INTO TOWN AS RECENTLY. PICKED GROUP OF WIPLAT PCNA TROOPS MIGHT ALSO BE CONSIDERED. REQUEST YOUR VIEWS.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of releasing officer]

![coordinating officers]

![authenticating officers logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

# DIRECTOR

LEOPOLOVILLE

C/AF

DCP, S/C 2

Oct 17 23 4818

REC'D CABLE SECT.

PRIORITY

IN 25935

DIR

CITE

LEOP 814

EYES ONLY JAZWIN FROM GUTHMAN

RYBAT YSPROP

REF: A. DIR 96862 (OUT 78336 )

B. DIR 96253 (OUT 81396 ).

1. HAS NOT BEEN ABLE PENETRATE ENTOURAGE. THIS HAS NOT BEEN ABLE PROVIDE OPS INTEL NEEDED THIS WG.

2. BELIEVE EARLY ASSIGNMENT SENIOR CASE OFFICER HANDLE FOR OPS EXCELLENT IDEA. ALTHOUGH MAINTAINING PRIORITY INTEREST THIS OP, ABLE DEVOTE ONLY LIMITED AMOUNT TIME, VIEW MULTIPLE OPS COMMITMENTS. SITUATION WILL BE EVEN MORE COMPLICATED WHEN WHAT GCCS ELIZ 13 OCTOBER. IF CASE OFFICER AVAILABLE, GUTHMAN WOULD DEVOTE AS MUCH TIME AS POSSIBLE TO ASSISTING AND DIRECTING HIS EFFORTS.

3. SERIOUSLY DOUBT POSSIBILITY ASSAULT HOUSE, VIEW STRONG, ARE CONCUR UP FEASIBLE IF SUBJECT GOES OUT INTO TOWN BUT VIEW ONE WATCHING HOUSE, DOUBT HE WILL TRY THIS. IN NEAR FUTURE. BELIEVE POSSIBLE TO MOUNT COMMANDO, PER REF B, BUT ASSUME HQS WOULD WANT THIS DONE BY THIRD NATIONAL ASSET.

4. IF CASE OFFICER SENT, RECOMMEND HIS POUCH SOONEST HIGH.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

PAGE 2 SEP 22 1915

CIA

PRIORITI
IN 2593;
LEOP BI

CITE

POWERED FOREIGN MAKE RIFLE WITH TELESCOPIC SIGHT AND SILENCER
HUNTING GOOD HERE WHEN LIGHTS RIGHT. HOWEVER AS HUNTING RIFLE
NOW FORBIDOEN, WOULD KEEP RIFLE IN OFFICE PENDING OPENING OF
HUNTING SEASON.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: REQUESTED STA VIEWS RE POSSIBILITY USE COMMANDO TYPE GROUP
ABDUCTION (SUBJ).

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)