157-10011-10085 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date:10/06/93
Page:1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10011-10085

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : UNKNOWN
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :
MEETING WITH DCS HEADQUARTERS' OFFICERS

DATE: 07/09/70
PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :
MEETING WITH DCS HEADQUARTERS' OFFICERS (
STETSON, SHIRLEY; WILSON, JOHN [R]
[R]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
SSCI Box 292, Folder 12

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId:32203853 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SSCI Box #292, Folder 12

9 July 1970

SUBJECT: Ne eting with DCS Headquartoss' Officers

Shirley STETSON, for at least ten years the hackhone of DCS/OSS and recently reassigned to DCS Washington, and John WILSON, recently designated as Jim DURBIN'S replacement in Raleigh-Durham-Chanel Hill Office which covers North and South Carolina visited C1/50 on 9 July 1970 and were briefed by CIA officer and the writer from 1100 to 1200 hours. This was follwed by lunch ( / (could not accompany) and discussions until 1315 hours.

2. The following highlights are made a matter of recopd:

a. Reports from "Chico" concerning B'Nai Brith in NYC are still being received by DCS but, as is the custom, they are being sent to/CIA officerin CI/SPG initially,
the CIA officer
xsxis rather than to CI/SO. It is believed that / has been absent for about twe months and this may account for the fact that CI/SO has not been receiving the material.

b. Upon the departure of STETSON for Washington and of a CIA officer for LA, Peter HOUCK will assume responsibility for Case 52722. HOCK has just completed his CT program and before that spent a wear in DCS on the Soviet Block Desk where he handled nuclear matters. He is well-regarded.

c. John WILSON is young, short, red-haired, aggressive, slow-speaking, former CT who has spent two years in DCS Head quarters. He previously served as a missionary for the Mormon Church in Austria with his wife. He stems from Ogden, Utah and the w opinės that he could be slated for the job of Gen. Sterling RYSORI& replacement in Sai Lake City in five to ten years when RYSOR retires. WILSON is sensitive, flushes easil has a friendly somewhat-shy manner yet expresses his opinions easily. He does no as a hall of fire or a personality guy but seems serious and level-headed. As has coted with ramy Mermans, he seems to save his greatest enthusiasm for discussion a the Hormon Church. How true it is that there is no such thing as a half-committed . As a result of his year or two of missionary duty in Austria with 300

![CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)