# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 09/02/94
Page: 1

## JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

### IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10004-10270

RECORDS SERIES:
MEMORANDUM
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:
ROBERT MAHEU

DATE: 00/00/00
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:
MAHEU, ROBERT
OFFICE OF SECURITY
CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: U
RESTRICTIONS: 1A, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: X
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/01/94

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId:32202159 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

SUBJECT: Robert Maheu - Foreign Head of State

1. In connection with the official State visit of the
   a foreign Head of State in 1959, the Office of Security was requested to render special support during the Los Angeles and New York phases of the tour. According to CIA personnel, the foreign official was especially desirous of female companionship during his Los Angeles visit and it was requested that appropriate arrangements be made through a controlled source of the Office in order to assure a satisfied visit.

2. On 3 April 1959 Mr. Robert Maheu, a cleared Office of Security contact, was asked to arrange a party for the foreign official ac Los Angeles, California. This was done by Mr. Maheu through Mr. Gregson Bautzer. Mr. Bautzer is a prominent Los Angeles attorney and Hollywood figure previously granted a covert security approval for use by FB Division. By pre-arrangement, during the course of this party the foreign official was introduced to a minor screen and stage actress. For the duration of the foreign official's stay in Los Angeles, 3 through 7 April 1959, and the actress became intimate friends. It vas indicated by a CIA employee who was integrated into the State party, that the foreign official desired to continue his friendship with the actress and that ho wished to meet with her during his stay in New York City froα 14 τήκουςή 18 April 1959.

3. On 13 April 1959 arrangements wore made to rent the home of an Office of Security source, at Long Beach, Long Island, for the period 14 through 13 April 1959. Tac dong was to be used as a confidencial acetias place for the actress and the foreign-official. At the same tiao the actress was registered at the Hocol Barclay, Ill Base 13th Street, New York City, under an assumed name.

The publicity touching on the relationsהבריכ become more pointed since some publicity mention had been made of the Jewish background of the actress On 14 April 1959 a CIA employee and the actress were transported homo on Long Island which was taken over is totac

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

01469 PROPERTY OF
THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

the meeting place for the foreign official and the actress. Later the same day, by pre-arrangement, too Department of State Security Agents, a New York City police lieutenant and a hired chauffeur arrived with the foreign Official. The actress renais ed at the site through 18 April 1959, and the foretlen official rand his party visited each evening and remained for ab four to five hours.

4. During the stay at the Long Beach site, the actress discussed th the publicity in the case at Sonc length with the Security representatives. She speculated about the possible sources of certain personal information that she felt had been leaked to the press. Additionally she spoke of her deep feeling for the foreign official & commented on how Gregson Bautzer c. initially sought her out to serve as a party companion for the foreign official. At the time she said she was unclear as to just what part Mr. Sautzer wanted her to to play In attempting to clarify his caso Mr. Bautzers said employed by the CIA. We want you to go to bed with b运. The actress said she rejected the proposal but finally wont to the party. She became quite taken with the foreign official and found him to be most charming.

5. All personal contacts by Security representatives in this case were under alias and and implied implied St State Departzent Kaffiliatica ઈડરદ There is no record or indication in any of the files in this case that involves Robert Maheu by name of. reference. It is believed that Mr. Mahou was never intro- duced to the actress and as far as can be determinei Bautzerfronted" for all arrangements. Office of Security investigation conducted variously frea 25 May through 17 September 1959 of the actress reflected no substantive derogatory information regarding hoone

01470

NW 50955 DocId: 32202159 Page 3

SECRET

PROPERTY OF
THE WHITE HOUSE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)