# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10011-10041

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCI

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

TRANSCRIPT OF HEARING DATED JULY 16, 1975

DATE: 07/16/75

PAGES : 69

SUBJECTS :

TRANSCRIPT OF HEARING; TESTIMONY OF PROUTY, L. FLETCHER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : T

RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

SSCI Box number 283, Folder 6



[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date: 09/30/93

Page:1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TOP SECRET

19

they operate and the difference between a contact at a pro-
prietary firm, like Air America or Fairway, Incorporated or the
Mullen Company would contact, you deal with contact men, some
of whom were military who are cleared, but others are agency
who are in there.

Like Gil Greenaway was in the Pentagon, he was an
Agency employee, he was not a military man. So when air lines
contacted Greenaway they thought they were contacting a military
man, but he was really an employee of the Agency, for other
reasons. But he was a contact man. So there was an array of
different contact men.

Now, in that elaborate context Schorr approached the
subject, and he said, were there contacts in the White House?

And I said, well, sure. Being the senior members of NSC
we had contact for our Forty Committee work, and then 54/12
Committee, and we knew who to deal with in the White House.

And he said, well, were there ever any otherkind of
contacts?

And I said, the only POW contact was a very slight thing
tied up with the Mullen Company, and then went on into the
story.

And the only way that I heard about the contact was,
not that I was able to say that Butterfield was the
contact, but that they brought up the name of Butterfield, and
they said, we will get this business done

TOP SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)