157-10002-10106 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 Date:09/30/93
Page: 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10106

RECORDS SERIES :
TRANSCRIPT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R-398

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM K. HARVEY

DATE : 06/25/75
PAGES : 96/104

SUBJECTS :
OPERATION MONGOOSE
ROSELLI, JOHNNY
CASTRO
ASSASSINATION
POISON PILLS
CUBA
MCCONE, JOHN
CIA
BISSELL, RICHARD
WHITE HOUSE
MAFIA
ROWAN, DAN
GIANCANA, SAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 245
Folder 14

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId: 32281946 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

HARVEY EX! R371
6/25/75

Project ZRRIFLE

1. Identification: The purpose of Project ZRRIFLE is to spot, develop, and use free agent assets for Division D po operations. Agents will be spotted in several areas including the United States, but posts for operatisual severity morous will probably not be used in their countries of residence. Present developmental activity is bening conducted in the WE and EE areas, but it is muticipated that this will be extended to other division areas. The project will be operated against third-country mistallationce and personnel.

2. Objectives: The objective of this project is accordance with requirements levied on the Clandestine semus, de Mchomh chum hice these requirenients subject to frequent revision, no listing of targets would be valid for the duration of the project. Specific operations will be mounted on the basis of need and opportunity. The profect will be conducted by Division D with assistance from area divisions and stations as meeded.

RECE JUN 24.1975 CIA

3. Dacleground: Su response to the incressing requirements Division D in 1960 begon the spotting of

![page] assets as a developmental activity. During the same


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

period requirements for A became more refined and in many respects more sensitive. Because most stations are not equipped to conduct this type of operation and because of the desirability of completely centralised control over this entire effort, it was determined that Division D could best conduct the activity. The first spotting activity has now advanced far enough to justify removing from the ODA category.

4. Operational assets:

(1) Personnel: QJWIN is under written contract as a principal agent, with the primary task of spotting agent candidates. QJWIN was first contacted in 1958 in connection with an illegal narcotics operation into the United States. For a period of a year and a half she was contracted to sporadically, in behalf of the Bureau of Narcotics. Files of this Bureau reflect an excellent performance by QJWIN. On October 1960.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

3

Qfumin annual salovey: 7,200
Travel & ops expenses for
Qfumin & other agents & aguit candidates: 2,000
Fees for services by and
standby of agents and
agent candidates: 2,000
Travel of staff employees
engaged in Zorifle activity : 2,500
Hive of safehouses, automobiles
and other operationed expenses: 1,000
$14,700

Pay for agents on completion of jobs?

RECE
JUN 24-1975
CIA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

4

1) Legal, ethical -> morale, operational problems; political: non-attributable ability,

2) Our own experience (Bangkok) (+effect on DDP) and experiences w/KGB (Business, London, or maybe Phillips) -> require most professional, proven operationally competent, ruthless, stable, CE-experienced ope officers (few available), able to conduct patient search & adapts to pull back if instinct or knowledge tells him he should, +/w famous high regard for operational security + Assessments are all-important.

3) Maximum security:

a. Kubark only (e.g., what does know?); no approach to other Sant. agencies

b. Within Kubark, one focal point for control, search, tracing, case officering, etc - DDP authority in this focal point mandatory. DCI officially cleared?

c. Max. security cable commo for innocuous cables only; no restrictions on travel; possibility of one-man overseas (Europe) control base with one-man (non-station) common word of mouth + no backfulness re traps

(except for beach)

d. No PA's or intermediaries; rigid case-officering, from start to finish.

e. No approach to officials of foreign govt. |RESULT|

JUN 24 1975

f. No use of anybody any agent who ever worked for a U.S. Host. agency, Tracing by opposition would reveal.

g. Use of already tested assets (e.g., Markel) in the search.

h. Stand-by list of Kubarkers who can


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

5

pass as foreigners.

i. Pretut slavel; this stablishes. Pie
j. No discussions in stations. k. No "tegn mitel ready to go if stallo

4. Blackmail:

a. No American citizens or residents or people who ever obtenied U.S. veisas

b. No chain of connections: strictly person to persong singleton ops.

c. No matthing any candidato in liome tantory.

d. Exclude organizations criminals, thore w/record of arrests, those of matebility of purpore as eximinals.

e. Alaffers mucolaed-selictisio.

5. Cover: planning should miclude prevision for Pleaning Acusor sechs in case of lilow.

6. Vesting of nominees essential: me following directions, security, blacktisil.

7. Former resistance personnel a possibility.

8. Wie nobody who has never death of criminals; otherwise will pust be aware of pitfalls or consider factors such as folllom to travel, wanted lists, ito.

9. Silverthorne

10. Possibile use of staffers for the action.

11. Silverthorne.

Keeping of files.

RECEIVED FROM

JUN 24 1975

CIA

d:32281946 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET freed to travel [^1]

Legal; operatinmal + ethical morale problems.

mat recurs enough.

1) Maximum security + misthin Kubork only (1.9, how ninch
   does now usio?). frimitetion on number esde

buse of objective.

2) one focal poit for resoch, contol, tracing care officer+PA
   selection. Complete DDP authority in this focal point micndstory.
   Overseas one-man control base wittes von (non-station) conos

3) Every operation to fie nigidly cose-officered; no silk-shirt.
   PA'R.

Non-attrelictability:

4) No Americane atigen or flimerican cresidents for dinect actione;
   A
   pocally for approach to foreign elements. No criminal.
   who tainted by use by another American agency. Itse of

5) ease officers who con parcs os foreigners and limited
   official referenck.

5) No chain of surections permitting blackmail.

6) Don't meet any selectie in home territory.

7) Avoid dfacursion of foreign officials mistet all possibility,
   of search through priviste citoyens (2.8.7 in) has
   billy mamined.

8) Plaming should include proision for blaming
   Noviets (or Gechs) in case of blow. in 4 above essential.

9) Exclude organization Oriminals, there with record of
   arvests, those who have engaged in several tippes of criul.

RECEIVED FROM
JUN 24 1975
CIA

:32281946 Page: 7

[^1]: 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

11) Former resistance personnel offer possibilitita, (OSS archuries)

12) Period of testing, purveillance, ito. for each seloster.

13) ally Rubaha peresfuel involved should have vore CE experience.

14) the stable m

15) What are limits on team or individuals sect selected? Mo "trom" until ready to go.

16) Danger of strudlys,

RECEIVED TROVI
JUN 24 1975
CIA

Id:32281946 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

- 256/1 - Eyes action

"The Magic button"

sarcastics Büro

"for a hung"... RIS 201. Cover...

Cotton - Bankruptcy - ho Star

Eyes - Jim A./ Contractstruct
not & Tso problems from U-2/

apply broches...

Last resort beyond last resort &

a confession of wakuess.

- El Benefactor assumptions

Example, 3 "wrong"

Framework of job:
memo:

Sear

Anesthesia

JUN 24 1975
CIA

26/1- OCI- matter -

no file Review -

1. Select proper ofen to run -

2. mayo, 2

3. Security Rules B-WRN-AS-3

4. Much lives. - Resew.

Page /1 Resort - brakes - Selly. tot.6 - bu- ka.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

6. no

7. no project or papers except per cover.

8. Principal Agent - #/(blacked out)? - Project Chapt. RCH-
   Actor 1500-- from MB.
   mach. spatial regim. - shall at Project - abe Phoko

9. Disposal -

10. Targets rubos mero -
    Must know before we can spat -

11. Case officering

12. (blacked out)

13. (blacked out)

7d Jest - Remember

![RECEIVED FROM JUN 24 1975 CIA]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)