2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 09/30/93
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10105

RECORDS SERIES :
TRANSCRIPT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :
TESTIMONY OF WILLIAM HARVEY

DATE : 06/25/75
PAGES : 62

SUBJECTS :

ZRRIFLE
CASTRO
ROSELLI, JOHNNY
OPERATION MONGOOSE
BISSELL, RICHARD
ASSASSINATION
KENNEDY, JOHN F.
THE PRESIDENT
QJWIN
MAFIA
SILVER, ARNOLD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : T
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 245
Folder 13

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TOP SECRET

6
1 counterespionage for a brief period against the Japanese and
2 the Italians and the Russians in '41. Then during most of the
3 War, against the Germans, and then beginning in early '45 until
4 the middle of '47 against the Soviet service again.

5 Mr. Schwarz. And then in 1947, did you join the CIA as
6 head of the Soviet Intelligence Branch?

7 Mr. Harvey. That is correct.

8 Mr. Schwarz. Is that also counterespionage?

9 Mr. Harvey. Yes, it was.

10 Mr. Schwarz. And then between 1947 and 1952, you worked
11 on Soviet counterespionage and certain special operations in
12 the Department for Plans, is that right?

13 Mr. Harvey. Well, that is correct. It was a particular
14 command and staff responsibility on communications intelligence
15 and for a period of, I would think probably eight to ten
16 months, I headed a planning staff, along with that.

17 Mr. Schwarz. In 1952, did you go to Berlin as chief of
18 Station for the CIA?

19 Mr. Harvey. I did.

20 Mr. Schwarz. And were you there until 1959?

21 Mr. Harvey. Until the end of 1959.

22 Mr. Schwarz. I understand, Mr. Harvey, that you had some
23 rather substantial accomplishments there, such as the Berlin
24 Tunnel

25 Could you just very succinctly describe the Berlin Tunnel

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

TOP SECRET

7

1 operation and then move on?

2 Mr. Harvey. Well, very briefly, that is an operation that

3 Frank Rollett and I conceived some time before I went to

4 Berlin

5 Senator Tower. You and who?

6 Mr. Harvey. Frank Rollett, who for many years was one of

7 the, if not the most, knowledgeable senior officer in the

8 cryptologic group.

9 And one of the reasons I went to Berlin was to attempt to

10 mount this operation.

11 In substance, what it amounted to was setting up a fairly

12 complex cover within a cover installation in West Berlin and

13 driving a tunnel approximately 500 meters, well underground

14 across the sector boundary, wandutapping into three main

15 telephone, telegraph. and teleprinter.cables.

16 think we had a total of around 900 circuits of these,

17 which were, among other things, the main circuit between the

18 command headquarters of the Soviet Group in Bunsdorf, and the

19 outlying commands in Germany and the headquarters in Moscow.

20 We also tapped into )a a number of Soviet Embassy circuits im in

21 Unter den Frund and Unter den Linden in East East Berlin, including

22 a number of intelligence circuits which unfortunately were not

23 really readable.

24 Senator Tower. Were not what?

25 Mr. Harvey. Were not readable.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

TOP SECRET

8

1 Mr. Schwarz. I have been told, Mr. Harvey is this not

2 correct -- that you not only conceived the program but helped

3 to dig the tunnel?

4 Mr. Harvey. I did.

5 Mr. Schwarz. In 1959, did you become Chief of the Foreign

6 Intelligence Staff Division D?

7 Mr. Harvey. That is correct.

8 Mr. Schwarz. Now is Division D a division of the CIA which

9 is responsible for communications intelligence?

10 Mr. Harvey. That is also correct.

11 Mr. Schwarz. But part --

12 Mr. Harvey. But I would like to clarify it, if I may,

13 Mr. Schwarz. It was the division of the clandestine services,

14 which was the focal point and was responsible for primarily two

15 things: the procurement of communications intelligence through

16 operational and clandestine sources and the control and utiliza-

17 tion of the product of communications intelligence, as it

18 affected the clandestine services.

19 We had nothing to do beyond that with the general sort of

20 research and analysis use which was handled in a separate

21 COMINT shop in the what I believe was the DDI, Deputy Director

22 Intelligence.

23 Mr. Schwarz. Did Staff D include within its responsibili-

24 ties the surreptitious obtaining of code information?

25 Mr. Harvey. Yes, in two ways: complete control and

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

TOP SECRET

1 coordination of any such efforts, approval and assessment of the

2 security risk, and also in the direct procurement through

3 operational means abroad, but not in this country.

4 Mr. Schwarz. And by operational, you mean entering into

5 buildings?

6 Mr. Harvey. Surreptitious entry, intercepting couriers,

7 monitoring of communications, monitoring of scatterback from

8 microwave, that type of thing. Clandestine monitoring would

9 be covered as well.

10 Mr. Schwarz. Now, did a man call Justin O'Donnell work

11 for you in Staff D?

12 Mr. Harvey. Yes, he did.

13 Mr. Schwarz. At some point, did Mr. O'Donnell recount to

14 you a conversation concerning Patrice Lumumba?

15 Mr. Harvey. Yes.

16 Mr. Schwarz. Would you state what he said to you?

17 Mr. Harvey. Briefly, Mr. O'Donnell came to me and said

18 that he had been approached by Richard Bissell, who was then

19 Deputy Director for Plans, to undertake an operation in the

20 Congo, one of the objectives of which was the elimination of

21 Patrice Lumumba. He also told me that he had declined to

22 undertake this assignment.

23 Mr. Schwarz. Did Mr Bissell subsequently have a conversa-

24 tion with you in which he also recounted the fact that he had

25 requested Mr. O'Donnell to undertake such an operation?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# TOP SECRET
13

of assassination is obviously a two-pronged subject, ours and
theirs. We spent countless hours over the years trying to
determine the parameters of how far the Soviet service was
willing to go. This was partly a question of assessment,
this was partly a question, to put it just as bluntly,
of self-protection.

I will try to summarize what I think are fair conclusions.

In the field of political assassination, although I cannot
document this by evidence, I have no question but what the
Soviet service has, does, and will continue to use the tool of
assassination to accomplish political gains inside and outside
of the USSR. In the intelligence field, I think you have to
make a distinction, the distinction roughly -- and I'm over-
simplifying this slightly -- but a distinction into perhaps
three classes.

One, their own ethnics or nationals. Secondly, indigenous
agents of third countries. And thirdly, the recognized official
staff officers of other intelligence services.

During the seven years that I spent in Berlin, which was
the longest continuous period that I was exposed in depth to
Soviet Executive Action, we lost a great many Russians, a great
many Germans, a certain number of Czechs, Poles and other
nationalities.

Mr. Schwarz. When you say you lost Russians, you mean
Russians who were working with the United States?

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Schwarz. Anyway, it exists, as a combination.

2 Mr. Harvey. In other words, if you want to put it in just these blunt terms, it would have been a lot easier for the KGB

3 to assassinate me in West Berlin than it would have been for me to assassinate my opposite number in East Berlin, in the

4 Soviet Embassy across the border.

5 Mr. Schwarz. In describing the Soviets, you distinguish between political assassination, direct agents of the United

6 States, and finally the emigres and foreign nationals.

7 Mr. Harvey. And also -- well, not foreign nationals, but emigres and Soviet nationals.

8 Mr. Schwarz. That's what I meant. Soviet nationals.

9 Mr. Harvey. The most merciless, the field where they are the most merciless are their own defected agents, of course.

10 Mr. Schwarz. Now, to your knowledge, has the United States ever assassinated a defected agent or a third country?

11 Mr. Harvey. You mean an American agent who has defected or doubled?

12 Mr. Schwarz. Yes.

13 Mr. Harvey. To my personal knowledge, no.

14 Mr. Schwarz. What about persons who are third country enemies of the United States?

15 Mr. Harvey. No.

16 Mr. Schwarz. You don't know any instance of the United States assassinating any person who is in the non-political

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# TOP SECRET

49

1 Eyes Only basis, and the first part of this was the necessary

2 documentation for the authority which was later signed off on

3 by Dick Helms as Deputy Director.

4 Beginning on my page 4, your middle of page 3 --

5 Mr. Schwarz. Well, just a moment. Page 1 is a cover story,

6 not the real story, the objectives --

7 Mr. Harvey. It is both.

8 Mr. Schwarz. But it does not recite as an objective, a

9 assassination or assassination capability.

10 Mr. Harvey. No, it does not.

11 Mr. Schwarz. Instead, it cites the obtaining of code

12 and cypher materials.

13 Mr. Harvey. Which, I would like to point out, was a

14 perfectly legitimate objective and was not in a sense, a cover

15 story except that if this project had gone so far as to the

16 actual recruitment of any agent for assassination or the target-

17 ting of any target or the mounting of any operation, it would

18 have been under this as a cover. But, those assets that were

19 spotted by QJWINN, for instance, under ZRRIFLE were also

20 honestly considered for possible clandestine procurement of

21 communications intelligence outside the U.S.

22 So it's -- maybe I'm not making this clear, it's a cover

23 in a sense, but it's not a phony cover, in other words.

24 Mr. Schwarz. Dual purpose.

25 Mr. Harvey. It was a dual purpose.

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# TOP SECRET

50

1 Mr. Schwarz. You mentioned QJWINN. Was QJWIN/ an agent

2 who you did hold in reserve for possible use in connection...

3 with the Executive Action program?

4 Mr. Harvey. No, QJWIN is an agent that I considered for

5 possible use and used for a limited period through Arnold Silver

6 for the spotting of individuals with criminal and underworld

7 connections in Europe for possible multi-purpose use, none of

8 whom were ever advised of the use, none of whom, as far as I

9 personally know, were ever used.

10 Mr. Schwarz. But the multi-purpose use included as one

11 purpose the possible use in assassination?

12 Mr. Harvey. Only the sense that had we ever been saddled

13 with a flat, if you will, command performance on assassination.

14 I might have considered the people spotted by WIN as possibil-

15 ities.

16 But, you see, before anybody that is ever spotted is

17 approached for any operation and particularly -- and please, I

18 don't mean to sound pedantic on this, I don't mean to -- is

19 actually approached, there is a long period of assessment,

20 crosschecks, so on and so forth. This particular spotting

21 mechanism never actually went that far, as far as I know.

22 I only know of one use made by QJWIN until we terminated

23 him some months later, I don't remember the exact date. It was

24 before I went to Rome. I know it was in connection with an

25 operation in the Congo that was not an assassination operation

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

TOP SECRET

51

1 and had, as far as I know, personally, at least, nothing to do

2 with assassination.

3 I have checked pages 1 and 2 and 3 and my page 4.

4 Mr. Schwarz. Are pages 4 through 7, in your judgment;

5 pages that were written by Mr. Arnold Silver?

6 Mr. Harvey. As a guess, I'd say they appear to be in the

7 same writing as these first three pages.

8 Mr. Schwarz. Are pages 8 and 9 pages that are written by

9 you?

10 Mr. Harvey. Well, just a moment, let me get to those.

11 I would also like to point out that from page 4 that --

12 that is page 4, as long as it continues in the same handwriting

13 was not a part of this so-called Project Outline, these I

14 would guess were probably Arnold Silver's notes and probably

15 based, at least to an extent, on discussions he had with me,

16 and certain sort of problems and questions and principles that

17 I tossed out to be considered and cares to be exercised.

18 Mr. Schwarz. Then pages 8 and 9 are in your handwriting,

19 is that right?

20 Mr. Harvey. Pages 8 and 9 are in my handwriting.

21 Mr. Schwarz... And at the bottom of page 8, does that

22 indicate that you had a conversation with Mr. Silver on January

23 26th?

24 Mr. Harvey. Yes, it does.

25 Mr. Schwarz. And is it your judgment that that is January

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

TOP SECRET

1 26, 1961 and is about the subject of Executive Action?

2 Mr. Harvey. Yes, it is.

3 Mr. Schwarz. And it followed your conversation with Mr.

4 Bissell that you have recounted?

5 Mr. Harvey. I think probably that might be -- well, when

6 I first looked at this, I thought this, well, this has got to

7 be '62, but I am almost certain now that it is not. If this

8 is true, this might place the first discussion that I had with

9 Dick Bissell in early January and this is difficult to pinpoint

10 because there were several such discussions in varying degrees

11 of detail during the period in the spring, and very early in

12 '61 to the fall of '61 period, but I did find out fairly early

13 on that Silver had -- or that Bissell had discussed the question

14 of assassination with Arnold Silver, and this discussion at

15 the very least, had to take place after I know Bissell already

16 had discussed the matter with Silver.

17 Now, these two pieces of paper, well, I say two pieces of

18 paper, what they are from -- they are in my handwriting. It's

19 from a yellow pad, probably the duplicate of this that I used

20 to keep on my desk and just make rough notes of conversations

21 that I had, telephone and otherwise, with various people.

22 Once a week I would go through them and either destroy them,

23 classified trash, dictate from them, or occasionally save

24 them. There is no relationship between the material that

25 appears after the line two-thirds of the way down the page, just

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# TOP SECRET

53

1 before the 26/1-AS, and the material which appears above

2 it which is tabbed SID G, tab 21.

3 Mr. Schwarz. That would be Sid Gottlieb?

4 Mr. Harvey. Sid Gottlieb.

5 Mr. Schwarz. Doesn't the conversation with Sid Gottlieb

6 on the 25th of January indicate you had discussion which included

7 the word bankruptcy and you felt assassination was --

8 Mr. Harvey. There was a general philosophic discussion of

9 assassination and assassination techniques. There was also a

10 discussion on a number of other things that were of particular

11 and specific interest to the communications intelligence field

12 and the clandestine service's responsibilities aspects, if you

13 will, and as best I can recall this conversation, this was a

14 sort of an exchange of ideas and briefing session, probably

15 held at the request of Sid Gottlieb in my office shortly after

16 he either took over a new job in TSD or took over as actual

17 Chief of TSD, which was the Technical Services Division of the

18 clandestine services.

19 Mr. Schwarz. Now the reference in the middle of that

20 conversation with Mr. Gottlieb to "Last resort beyond last

21 resort and a confession of weakness." That's referring to

22 assassination?

23 Mr. Harvey. That's obviously referring to assassination.

24 That's probably what I told Sid Gottlieb my opinion on the

25 use and propriety of assassination as a technique was.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# TOP SECRET

55

1 of operational philosophy which I expressed to Gottlieb, that

2 the question then came in pure theory as to -- as in such cases

3 as, now assumptions, the example of 3 wrong, I am not really

4 sure. But the closest that I can come is that the assumptions --

5 it might be desirable in a purely theoretical discussion and in

6 my opinion we were wrong. Whether I said that to Gottlieb in

7 the words that are here, I just don't know.

8 Mr. Schwarz. Who were the two besides Mr. Trujillo that

9 make up the examples of 3?

10 Mr. Harvey. I presume -- I have no idea, but I presume

11 that the logical candidates at that point would have been

12 Lumumba and Castro. By logical candidates, I mean not that

13 we were considering them in this discussion as logical targets

14 for assassination, but that these were sort of the three

15 people that would come to mind; if you are going to go into this,

16 these are three to be considered.

tape 2b

17 But you will notice, if I may,. Mr. Schwarz, "Framework of Sid's job.

18 ELINT R&D - Memo." Ludford is the name of the staff

19 officer who worked for me in Division D at that time.

20 This "translating machine" was an experimental device,

21 done under -- hoped for development by GE that I was most

22 interested in, because of the serious translation problem that

23 we had and particularly in communications intelligence.

24 So you see this was not a discussion strictly within the

25 framework of either assassination as a specific, or assassination

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

TOP SECRET

1 as a general problem.

2 Mr. Schwarz. Now, the material commencing on handwritten

3 page 4 and commencing in the middle of page 3 of the Senator's
4 notes, reflects in your judgment the conversation that you had
5 with *Mr. Silver* and it is his notes about that conversation, is
6 that right?

7 Mr. Harvey. That is my best guess.

8 It may also, however, include his own thinking and so forth.

9 I doubt if it includes -- it certainly would not include any

10 specific discussions, I don't think, with other officers,

11 because *Arnold Silver* was under specific instructions not to

12 discuss this as such with anybody else, at least without clearing

13 it with me first.

14 Mr. Schwarz. And he starts, for example, by talking about

15 "Legal, ethical, morale, operational problems" and so forth,

16 and that reflects the conversation you had with *Mr. Silver*?

17 Mr. Harvey. Yes, it does.

18 Mr. Schwarz. Down toward the end of entry 3b -- and 3 has

19 the heading "Maximum security" -- do you see that on page 4?

20

21 Mr. Harvey. Yes, I see it.

22 Mr. Schwarz. There is a sentence which reads as follows --

23 two sentences, which I should read into the record, three

24 sentences.

25 "Within Kubark" -- now, is that the CIA?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

TOP SECRET

1 crossed in this document.

2 Mr. Schwarz. One way or the other?

3 Mr. Harvey. That's right. One way or the other.

4 Mr. Schwarz. Your note has a report to the DCI, the

5 January 26th reference, which reads in the first line AS

6 That is Arnold S Silver, I take it?

7 Mr. Harvey.. Yes, I'm sure that's Arnold Silver.

8 Mr. Schwarz. Then it appears to say f-a-n-f-o-r-n DCI

9 matter. What does that mean?

10 Mr. Harvey. I am not sure. The closest I could come to

11 that is a fairly illogical Fanfani, and Fanfani was never

12 even dreamed of, as far as I know, in any such context.

13 Fanforn -- Burton Wides raised that with me, and I just had to

14 throw up my hands. I just don't know.

15 Mr. Schwarz. And you don't know what the reference to DCI

16 in the notes means?

17 Mr. Harvey. No, I am sorry, I do not, at this point, Mr. Schwarz.

19 Mr. Schwarz. Okay.

20 Mr. Harvey. Are you asking me to try to interpret the

21 portion of this that is in my handwriting, or are you satisified

22 at this point?

23 Mr. Schwarz. Well, the other items, it seems to me, are

24 either not important or are understandable. Maybe some of the

25 members have questions.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

Scd 1 - 25 1/1 - Eyes @ctioim

"The Magic button"

narcotics Büro

"for a hung"- RIS 201 Cover

Caution- Bankruptcy- no Stor

eyes- Jim A. /Contiachstruct/ from u-2
not TSO Problems

@ apply brakes

Lost resort beyond lost resad a
A confesstion of weaknesses.

- El Benefactor- assumptions-

Example 3 "wrong"

Framework of job
Memo

Fear

Anesthesia -

26/1 Fanform-OC/-Matter-

no fil Revenue

RECEIV

JAN 24 1975

CIA

1. Select proper ofern to run-

2. 
3. Security Rules Mayo 2

4. Husk leves. B-WINN-AS-3

Id: 32281945 Page 19 1. Resort - brakes - Sulitel.blo - Keho


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

6. No

7. No projects or papers except fer cover.

8. Principal agent-
   Project Cheft RCH-
   Acctel 1500- from MB.
   mark sfat ngm - Stell
   project - As Drako

9. Disposal -

10. Targets who & others -
    Mist know before we can spot

11. Case officering

7d list - Remember

RECLINED FROM
JUN 24 1975
CIA


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)