# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date:10/07/93
Page:1

## JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

### IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10008-10241

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R602

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :
INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

DATE : 07/24/75

PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS :
INTERVIEW WITH BRUCE CHEEVER
ASSASSINATION INQUIRY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : T

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 438-3

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

438-3 R602

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY TOP SECRET

INTERVIEW WITH: Bruce Cheever

REGARDING: Assassination Inquiry SSCI CO 438-3

SSCI BOX " 438-3

DATE-TIME-LOCATION: July 24, 1975 10241

PRESENT: Paul WALLACH and Joe DiGenova

HAS OR SHOULD BE DIGESTED:

FOLLOW UP REQUIRED:

MATERIAL SUBMITTED BY INTERVIEWEE(S):


EXECUTIVE SESSION: _ YES _ No

NW 50955 DocId: 32203749 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

Page 1 of 6

TOP SECRET

This morning Joe DiGenova and I interviewed Bruce Cheever at the Carroll Arms. We focused on Cheever's tenure as deputy director of Task Force W.

Background:

1938-43 Marine Corps

1943-44 OSS Parachute School

1944-46 Marine Corps

1950-53 Office Police Coordination; headed Plans Section for Western European Division

1953-56 Chief of Station: Sweden

1956-60 Deputy Chief, European Division

1960-3/62 Headquarters, U. S. European Command (U. S. representative)

3/62-65 Deputy Director: Task Force W

1965-71 Chief of Station: South America

1971 Retired from Agency

3/64-2/65 Deputy Chief, Special Operations Branch (developing paramilitary capabilities for Agency)

Apparently selected for Task Force W because of extensive paramilitary background. Not sure whether slotted by Harvey or Helms.

Prior to his Task Force W assignment, Harvey was known to Cheever by reputation only. He described Harvey as one of the finest operatives the Agency ever had, citing Harvey's Berlin tunnel.

Cheever understood that Task Force W was Mongoose's instrument to get rid of the Castro regime; that the Cuban operations had White House backing; and that the Agency had been given an operational carte blanche, with the caveat that each operation had to receive explicit SGA approval prior to getting off the drawing board.

Cheever told us: "You don't pull in fast-rising men like [Ted) Schakley unless you have solid backing." Cheever believes that Lansdale was RFK's representative and that Task Force W would not suggest aggressive covert action to the SGA without Lansdale's approval.

![CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR RELEASE OF THIS DOCUME AS SANITIZED, 14 Jul 94 (1)(B), (1) (c).]

DocId: 32203749 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY                                                                   Page 2 of 6

Cheever confirmed what we knew about Harvey.
Although Cheever worked closely with Harvey, he
told us that Harvey was a loner and most surely
would not inform him of operations unless he had
a "must need to know". In Cheever's opinion,
Harvey was one of the great believers in compart-
mentalization; Cheever "complained that Harvey
turned him into his staff man" (as compared to an
operational extension). Cheever also told us that
Harvey was a two martini man at lunch with thyroid
problems; this often "led to problems for Harvey
at early afternoon meetings".

Cheever believes he attended at least ten SGA
meetings. However he does not recall RFK, only
recalls briefing Bundy. (Maybe Cheever attended
other than SGA meetings -- the minutes do not re-
flect his attendance.)

Cheever met weekly with designees of the SGA
principals in Lansdale's office (Messrs. Califano,
Haig, Hurwitch, Craig, and Johnson). Cheever would
brief these designees on proposed operational
plans; discussion of the details would ensue.
Subsequent to the staff meetings, the principals
would meet and decide whether or not the particular
plan would be approved. Cheever did state that the
Group often rejected proposals. In one instance,
Max Taylor vetoed the maritime infiltration of a
small team. Taylor felt that the chances of success
were small and attributability great. (Cheever
agreed with Taylor -- "but it was one of Lansdale's
brain childs.")

Cheever told us that "around the Task Force W
shop it was known that the Kennedys wanted to get
rid of the Castro regime." In order to get this
done, "the Kennedys built a fire under the Agency's
tail and installed Lansdale as Chief of Operations".
According to Cheever, Lansdale and the SGA were
"geared to keeping the Kennedys informed as to what
was happening".

However, after the Cuban missile crisis, Cuban
operations were not pursued with the same sense of
urgency.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)