# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10002-10148

RECORDS SERIES:
TRANSCRIPT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:

TITLE:
TESTIMONY OF JAMES P. O'CONNELL

DATE: 05/30/75
PAGES: 168

SUBJECTS:
MAHEU, ROBERT
CASTRO
ASSASSINATION
CUBA
HUGHES
BISSELL
VERONA
VARONA
HARVEY, WILLIAM
ROSSELLI
GIANCANA
MAFIA
TRAFFICANTE
CIA
ROWAN, DAN
MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS-

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date:10/05/93
Page:2

COMMENTS:
Box 255
Folder 4

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 50955 DocId:32281988 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# TOP SECRET

Chairman Church. Would you please take the oath?

Do you swear that everything you will testify to in these proceedings shall be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?

Mr. O'Connell. I do.

TESTIMONY OF JAMES P. O'CONNELL

Mr. Schwarz. Would you state your name?

Mr. O'Connell. My name is James P. O'Connell.

Mr. Schwarz. And what is your address?

Mr. O'Connell. 1333 Elsinore Avenue, McLean, Virginia,

Mr. Schwarz. Before we proceed substantively let me just put on the record some matters.

First, you understand that you have a right to counsel?

Mr. O'Connell. I understand that. I just read it.

Mr. Schwarz. And you should also be advised that you have your rights under the Constitution, including your rights under the Fifth Amendment, if at any point you wish to assert whatever rights that you do have that are under those Constitutional provisions.

Do you understand that?

Mr.O'Connell. Yes.

Mr. Schwarz. And if at any time you feel that you need an attorney you have the right to ask for an attorney, do you understand that?

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

TOP SECRET

1 pills?

2 Mr. O'Connell. The man that created them is Dr. Raymond Trichler.

3 Mr. Schwarz. Did.he hand the pills to you?

4 Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

5 Mr. Schwarz. Did he know what the pills were for?

6 Mr. O'Connell. I don't think so.

7 Mr. Schwarz. But he knew they were illegal?

8 Mr. O'Connell. He knew they were illegal.

9 Mr. Schwarz. And were the pills not tried out on some

10 experimental subjects in the U.S.?

11 Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

12 Mr. Schwarz. And proven to be lethal?

13 Mr. O'Connell. Well, to the extent -- I will tell you that, we used them on hamsters.

14 Mr. Schwarz. And also monkeys?

15 Mr. O'Connell. No, as far as I know, just the hamsters.

16 Mr. Schwarz. But anyway, you knew they were lethal.

17 Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

18 Mr. Schwarz. And you handed them over to Rosselli?

19 Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

20 Mr. Schwarz. And had the Technical Services made poison pills before as far as you know?

21 Mr. O'Connell. As far as I know. I have no idea.

22 This was my first experience with that sort of thing.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# TOP SECRET

98

your possession, that might give you a more accurate timing than

I am giving to you now.

Mr. Madigan. We don't have it presently.

Mr. O'Connell. I am sure it is over there.

Mr. Wides. With regard to the discussion of authorization, would it have been following on Mr. Madigan's point, that this was a fairly serious and unusual operation that you were given, and that you would have asked, is this authorized? Or how did the question of Mr. Dulles authorizing it come up, as best you recall?

Mr. O'Connell. I told you, I knew that Mr. Dulles -- I was told that Mr. Dulles had authorized it, I can't say quite when it happened, but I know I was told.

Mr. Wides. You testified this morning -- I don't want to put words in your mouth -- I thought you testified that you were sure that Mr. Edwards told you at this meeting when he first gave you the assignment that you were not sure that Mr. Bissell's also mentioned that when you later met in your office.

Mr. O'Connell. I would stick with that, yes. I think it probably was when I -- when Colonel Edwards called me he said, this probably has the blessing of the DCI.

Mr. Wides. Do you know if Dr. V. S. Roosevelt, who was head of the Technical Services Division at the time, was witnessing about this?

Mr. O'Connell. I wouldn't want to bet my life that he

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

TOP SECRET

99

1 wasn't. But he was at a meeting when the bills were delivered,
2 and Dr. Treichler came over to Colonel Edwards'office.

3 Mr. Wides. But you don't recall whether you ever knew
4 that Roosevelt knew what it was in connection with as distinct
5 from merely knowing it was a lethal pill, is that right?

6 Mr. O'Connell. I can't say -- to my personal knowledge,
7 the discussion never came up when I was there. I don't think
8 he is a dummy, and I don't think Treichler is any dummy, and
9 I think they had a general idea.

10 But as far as I know they were never officially told.

11 Mr. Wides. To your knowledge, before you went overseas
12 no one else in the office of Security, Mr. Bannerman, Mr.
13 White or Mr. Hall, none of those men or anyone else knew about
the project, only yourself and Mr. Edwards?

14 Mr. O'Connell. Well, I would say this, to my knowledge
15 they were never briefed. However, I think I brought up an
16 incident this morning where Colonel Edwards was on leave and
17 Colonel King called Mr. Bannerman, who was his
18 deputy, and assumed that Bannerman knew all about it and started
19 talking about it, what are we going to do about
20 this -- I don't know what the conversation was about. And
21 Bannerman called in and said, what was this all about?

22 Mr. Wides. This was in 1962 before you left?

23 Mr. O'Connell. Yes. It was while I was up in the office.

24 And I said, I don't have the authority to brief you on it.

25 TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

TOP SECRET

127

Mr. Wides. Were you ever aware, whether you were formally
notified or just got a rumble or heard through the grapevine,
that the CIA was getting some information about these threats,
or some information about groups who might pose a threat in the
Washington area, not from Bureau sources or military sources,
but from CIA sources, did you ever hear any rumble of that kind?

Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

Mr. Wides. What did you hear?

Mr. O'Connell. The only way I got involved in it was that
Howard Osborn would have a nine o'clock meeting every
morning with his deputies.

And they had a proprietary organization in the Office of
Security which I think had informants.

Now, I don't know their identities, but it would come out
in the meeting, and they would have some names for them. I
couldn't tell you what they were.

Mr. Madigan. What was the proprietary called?

Mr. O'Connell. The name that strikes me -- and I
know part of it, but I couldn't tell you exactly -- I think it
was Anderson --

Mr. Madigan. Anderson Stuart?

Mr. O'Connell. Anderson Stuart, something like that.

Mr. Wides. You say you think they had informants?

Mr. O'Connell. They obviously did, I guess, because the
way this would come out, so-and-so advised at a meeting last

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

TOP SECRET

128

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1 night.

2 Mr. Wides. If you associate that with Anderson
you must have been told more than just, we have an informant.

3 How would it be discussed at the meeting, through this
proprietary we have access to information?

4 Mr. O'Connell. No, it usually would be the Deputy
Director that that was under. And that was under OIS.

5 Mr. Wides. Victor White?

6 Mr. O'Connell. Victor White.

7 Mr. Wides. And what would he say about how Anderson
fitted into the picture?

8 Mr. O'Connell. That never came up. I just drew that
conclusion, that they had potential.

9 Mr. Wides. Why would you assume that they used a proprie-
tary as opposed to just having some agents penetrate a group?

10 Why would you think in terms of their using the Anderson

11 Mr. O'Connell. I can tell you what I think.

12 First of all, I wouldn't want to use government employees.

13 Mr. Wides. Why couldn't the CIA personnel just run
agents who would be --

14 Mr. O'Connell. That is in fact what they were doing.

15 These people that were proprietary were not CIA employees. They
were contract teams.

16 Mr. Wides. Why would you have thought that they would have
gone the route of using the proprietary people as opposed to

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# TOP SECRET

143

Did you have any knowledge during the 1970-1971 time frame of any effort outside of Florida with regard to Cubans to fire on the Keys or on the Florida area there with a boat that would be disguised as a Russian boat, which was really a group of people, some of whom were assets of the Agency?

Mr. O'Connell. No.

Mr. Madigan. You never heard of anything like that?

Mr. O'Connell. Nothing of that, no.

Mr. Madigan. Did you ever run across a fellow by the name of Jerry Henning in your dealing with Roselli and Maheu?

Mr.O'Connell. No.

Mr. Madigan. You never heard of the name?

Mr. O'Connell. I never heard of the name.

Mr. Madigan. Did you handle the Agency contact with Mr. Maheu about having him coordinate or set up or be involved in the supplying of a female to this foreign leader back in 1959?

Mr. O'Connelll. A couple of them, as a matter of fact.

Mr. Madigan. A couple of foreign leaders?

Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

Mr. Madigan. What was your involvement in that? Am I right about 1959?

Mr. O'Connell. It could be. There were two different occasions.

Mr. Madigan. What is your recollection as to the dates?

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# TOP SECRET

144

1 Mr.O'Connell. Well, the first one was __________ about

2 1959.

3 Mr. Madigan. And how did that come about? Why did it go to

4 you in the Office of Security as opposed to --

5 Mr. O'Connell. Just like this other one came down from the

6 DDP, it came from the __________ Division, as

7 I recall it. And __________ was coming into the --

8 Mr. Wides. Off the record.

9 (Discussion off the record.)

10 Mr. Madigan. What did your first contact with Maheu

11 with regard to this project involve?

12 Mr. O'Connell. Well, the request came to the Security.

13 Mr. Madigan. It came down to you?

14 Mr. O'Connell. It came through Colonel Edwards.

15 Mr. Madigan. To you?

16 Mr. O'Connell. Yes. And the requirement was a certain type

17 female who would attract this foreign leader. He wanted female

18 companionship.

19 Mr. Madigan. The leader?

20 Mr. O'Connell. The leader did.

21 Mr. Madigan. So did you contact Maheu directly?

22 Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

23 Mr. Wides. In this instance you were talking about

24 a leader sho would be in America, or to supply companionship

25 Wherever the leader was abroad?

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

TOP SECRET

145

Mr.O'Connell. He was visiting New York, and it was

proposed to be state visit and so forth. And he really wanted some female companionship. And his case officer, the

Agency's case officer that was handling the leader, said,

let's stick to business while you are in New York. And we will
take you out to the West Coast and that is going to be a
pleasure trip, and we will see that you meet the right people.

So Maheu lined up this young lady who was a starlet, a
little cutie, and they knew the type he liked, size and
everything.

So they threw a cocktail party for him, very informal
cocktail party.

Mr. Madigan. Maheu did?

Mr. O'Connell. It was a fellow named Gregg Bautzer. He used to be married to some very famous actress, and he knows
just about anything and everything that walks in skirts in L.A.
and Hollywood.

So Maheu called Gregg and asked him if he could come up
with something according to certain specs. And he did. And 'she
was placed in the right atmosphere, at the right time and the
leader went head over heels in love with her, to the extent
that it was beyond what we planned. He really fell in love with
her.

Mr. Madigan. Was a fellow named Norman Paul involved in this?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

TOP SECRET

146

Mr. O'Connell. No. Normal Paul at one time was the head of the Division that I mentioned a little while ago, But he wasn't involved in it

So what we thought was going to be a passing fancy, he decided he had to go back to New York, and he insisted that she go back with him.

Well, this was getting a little embarrassing, because here he is the head of his country, and he has got this gal on the strings.

So, we agreed to it and she agreed to it, but we had to keep her in one hotel -- she was staying at the Waldorf-Astoria and he was staying in another place. And we got a house out in Long Island so they could have their rendevouz, and they would spend some time together

Mr. Madigan. Was that an Agency house?

Mr. O'Connell. Now we rented the house from a private individual who was a friend of somebody who was with the Agency

Mr. Madigan. Did you handle that?

Mr. O'Connell. The field office handled that, the New York field office.

Mr. Madigan. Of the Office of Security?

Mr. O'Connell. They handled procuring the house out in Long Island. And then they also supplied people to stay with the young lady whie she was in New York because they didnt

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

TOP SECRET
147

want to have her running around - it wasn't holding her against her will, it was just to give her somebody that could assist her in any requirements she had while she was waiting for the leader.

Mr. Madigan. And was that the end of that particular project that you recall?

Mr. O'Connell. That was the end of it, except that we had some repercussions, where he went back to his country and was lovesick, and he was going to give up the throne, which would have caused all sorts of consternation in the Agency, because that was the last guy that the Agency wanted to leave.

But he was communicating with her for a while, and then eventually we got her a job in a local musical -- that is really all that she was interested in, trying to make it in the theater. And they drifted off, and she subsequently married.

Mr. Wides. Did the Agency monitor the mail between him and the lady, either before she got it or after she got it?

Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

Mr. Wides. Before? Did they intercept the mail, or how was the mail handled, through special channels?

Mr.O'Connell. We set up a post office box at his request, and we serviced the box.

Mr. Wides. And would you look at the mail before it was passed on?

Mr. O'Connell. I wouldn't


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# TOP SECRET

148

1 Mr. Wides. Did the Agency?

2 Mr. O'Connell. The agency.

3 Mr. Wides. Did the leader know that?

4 Mr. O'Connell. NO.

5 Mr. Wides. And how did the letters go back and forth?

6 Mr. O'Connell. I dont know. We would just turn it over to the Division.

7 Mr. Wides. Did she understand that the Agency was somehow involved in the passage of return mail from the lady to the world leader, that she just didn't drop it on the mailbox on the corner?

8 Mr. O'Connell. She delivered it to somebody up in the field office, as I recall -- don't hold me to that, but I think that was it -- and then it was sent down to headquarters.

9 Mr. Wides. Was it your impression that the Agency read that mail, too, on its way back?

10 Mr. O'Connell..I would imagine so, because it got out of our control.

11 Mr. Wides. Let me go back.

12 With regard to the mail coming in, is it your imagination, or do you have information that the Agency was looking at the letters?

13 Mr. O'Connell. I knew that was being done.

14 Mr. Wides. You know from personal knowledge, or you were told by people involved?

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

TOP SECRET
149

Mr.O'Connell. I was told, the people that were doing it told me.

Mr. Wides. That they were actually reading the mail and then giving it to the lady?

Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

Mr. Wides. And as far as you know without either party being aware of the fact?

Mr. O'Connell. Yes

Mr. Madigan. Yousaid there was a second instance.

Mr. Madigan. Was there a second instance which involved a female in this country, or was it sending one overseas?

Mr. O'Connell. The girl was recruited in this country, but she was sent overseas

Mr. Madigan. And that was the leader you had told us about earlier off the record?

Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

Mr. Madigan. And was that entire situation handled overseas when you once got over there?

Mr. O'Connell. Yes

Mr. Madigan. Was there any business of the leader coming back here with her?

Mr. O'Connell. Not with her. He came back sometime, maybe a year later, and wanted to know whether he could see her again. And we made arrangements for her to attend the party that was given by Kay Star, the singer. And they threw a

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

TOP SECRET

150

little cocktail party for him, I think it was in San Francisco. And we had that gal, we got in touch with her again, and she did attend the party. But it was a social affair, and there was no operation involved in it.

Mr. Madigan. Did Maheu set that up?

Mr. O'Connelll. Yes.

Mr. Mdigan. Both the original contact and the later party in San Francisco?

Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

Mr. Madigan. And were those the only two times now that he was involved in the operations field?

Mr. O'Connelll. Oh, no. He did a lot of other things.

Mr. Madigan. Let me ask you this question.

When Maheu was having his problems with the authorities, was there any reference back to his involvement in those kind of activities, or was the only discussion about his role in the so-called assassination plot?

Mr. O'Connell. Well, I am not even so sure that they got into that aspect of it. It was just that he was involved to the extent that he had set up the operation against Rowan, or he was the one that got in touch with DuBois to do it.

Mr. Wides. When did you come back from overseas?

Mr. O'Connell. July of 1965.

Mr. Wides. After you came back did you learn of a time, either after you came back or very shortly before you came

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# TOP SECRET

159

1 velllance?

2 Mr. O'Connell. Never, to my knowledge he never got involved in that, officially or otherwise.

3 Mr. Wides. Or surreptitious entry?

4 Mr. O'Connell. He did one surreptitious entry for us once.

5 Mr. Wides. What were the specifics of that?

6 Mr. O'Connell. There were a group of Iranian students.

7 The Agency was sponsoring them, and they were going to the Georgetown School of Linguistics. And they were staying in a rooming house up there right outside of Georgetown some- here. And one of the students came to the case officer and said that one of the group was acting very suspiciously, taking a lot of notes where they were not supposed to be taking notes, or certainly after operational briefings, and he would go back to his room and he would write voluminous notes. And he thought that was very strange that this guy was not acting as he should.

8 And that aroused the suspicion of the case officer. And they wanted to know whether we would get in and photo- graph what he was writing to see whether he was really violating his agreement.

9 So I called Maheu and he went up to the rooming house, and he went to the people who owned the house and asked if they had a room to rent and she had one. And he did know where the students were staying. And she showed him one room. And

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# TOP SECRET

160

he said, anything up on thenext floor? And as luck would
have it, she had the adjacent room.

So he brought what would appear to be a suitcase up there,
which was his photographic equipment. And we knew the students
were in school, and the case officer was going to alert us if
they came back, so he wouldn't get caught in the act.

And he went in, it was a very simple matter. It was
a tin box that he could open with a paper clip and he took it out
and photographed it, and put the case back in the drawer and
locked up and left.

But the case officer was a gal, a woman. And she was
looking at one part of the school over there. And this guy
comes out the back door. And as Maheu was coming down the
stairs the students were coming up, with amatter of maybe
a split second timing.

Mr. Madigan. This wasn't Mendoz?

Mr. O'Connell. No. This was a DDP case officer.

Mr. Wides. What period was this that we are talking
about?

Mr. O'Connell. This would have been about 1955.

Mr. Wides. And other than that, and the two incidents
involving female companioship, what other kinds of sensitive
things would he undertake? Was that in the period that you
were paying him 500 a month?

Mr. O'Connell. We stopped paying the 500 way back when he

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

TOP SECRET

162

1 nature as opposed to routine?

2 Mr. O'Connell. We had word that they wanted to --

3 apparently this foreign leader had visited the Kremlin, and we

4 were reasonably certain -- he was quite a lady's man, and he

5 liked just about any time to be accommodated.

6 So, we knew that he went to the Kremlin and stayed at the

7 Kremlin. And the Division wanted us to come up with a simulated

8 photograph or a film that showed him going through the act of

9 taking on a female. And they simulated a back drop that

10 looked like it was in a room in the Kremlin, and outside

11 you could see the towers and everything, and the furniture was

12 according to what they had.

13 And this was all done by people that knew generally what
they looked like.

14 Now, we got Bob to make that film.

15 Mr. Wides. Is it correct that the Agency knew that the

16 Soviets had made a film of the foreign leader when he was in

17 Russia and was hoping to have a counterfeit film which they would

18 circulate in the country, thereby making the foreign leader

19 angry at the Soviets, was that the purpose?

20 Mr.O'Connell. I don't know whether they knew that the

21 Soviets had made the film. But the purpose of the exercise

22 was to have a film circulated in his own country, or

23 neighboring countries, that would make him quite upset with

24 the Soviets.

25 TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

TOP SECRET                                                                           163

Mr. Wides. You mean they thought that the Russians had made a film?

Mr. O'Connell. Yes, to embarrass him.

Mr. Madigan. And that was accomplished as far as you know?

Mr. O'Connell. The film was made, but they never did release it, because things started to get better with the leader, and they felt that they wouldn't use it.

Mr. Madigan. Were Agency facilities used by Maheu for the production of this thing?

Mr. O'Connell. No. I hired a small independent studio in Los Angeles.

Mr. Madigan. And did Agency officials fly out there, the ones that knew about the backdrop and all that? How was that done?

Mr. O'Connell. It seems to me that they were just -- at this point I am not too sure whether they superimposed it, I guess is the word, with that background. I am not so sure at this point, it has been so long ago. That was away in the mid-fifties.

Mr. Wides. Could we get back to the question that we had started on, which was the files and where they would exist?

You said that the operational files from all of your dealing with him would be in the Family Jewels, because they were all sensitive admissions.

Mr. O'Connell. Yes.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

## TOP SECRET

166

1 Mr. O'Connell. No.

2 Mr. Wides. Or Max Gonzales.

3 Mr. O'Connell. No.

4 Mr. Wides. While you were down there -- and this may overlap the question that Mr. Madigan asked before, but

5 I think it is a little more -- did you have any awareness of any other efforts apart from Mr. Verona by Cubans in connec-

6 tion with the Agency to try and assassinate Castro?

7 Mr. O'Connell. No, none whatsoever.

8 Mr. Wides. I don't have any other questions.

9 Mr. Madigan. In your operational activities with Mr. Maheu, particularly in the New York area, did you ever have con-

10 tact with a private investigator by the name of A. J. Woolston-Smith?

11 Mr. O'Connell. No, I never heard of him.

12 Mr. Wides. Do you know why there were two field offices in New York, two iffices in Manhatten?

13 What was the difference?

14 Mr. O'Connell. The cover. One was under Treasury cover and the other under Defense.

15 Mr. Wides. Were there two offices?

16 Mr. O'Connell. Why, they had them, it just grew like Topsy. They had two offices in Washington, and they had two offices in New York. And really the basis -- it was that that was the way they started, they figured they needed two

## TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

TOP SECRET

167

1 different type covers because of the type of work they were

2 doing.

3 Mr. Wides. What would the New York offices do as dis-

4 tinct from the Manhattan offices, or vice versa?

5 Mr. O'Connell. Nothing. They were basically investigative

6 offices.

7 Mr. Wides. They just happened to have two?

8 Mr.O'Connell. They had two. One was downtown right off

9 Wall Street, and the other one at the time was at 42nd Street.

10 The Manhattan field office. And then they eventually merged.

11 Now they are over on Madison Avenue, I think.

12 Mr. Wides. Thank you very much. That concludes the session.

13 And we appreciate your staying so long.

14 (Whereupon, at 1:25 p.m., the hearing was concluded.)

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

TOP SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)