# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 10/05/93
Page: 1

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10005-10250
RECORDS SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: R654

Rtd 3/16/94

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
TRANSCRIPT/RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS/EXHIBITS
DATE: 06/25/75
PAGES: 61
SUBJECTS:
PAGES 8-68 OF TESTIMONY BY SARNO, ALFRED J.
DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: T
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/05/93
OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:
BOX 258-11

[R] - ITEM IS RES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TOP SECRET

Vol. 3 of 2

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

Cuba

The United States Senate

R654

Report of Proceedings

SSCI CO

MINORITY DRAWL

AL ITIES

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED

![Signature] 16 MAR 94

(1)(A)
(1)(B)

Friday, June 25, 1975

Washington, D. C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL

410 FIRST STREET, S. E.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20003

(202) 544-6000

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

TOP SECRET

WARD & PAUL
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

CONTENTS

A

1

2 TESTIMONY OF

3 Alfred J. Sarno

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

410 First Street, S. E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 3

TOP SECRET

PAGE

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

TOP SECRET

1 for *AMUTS*?

2 Mr. Sarno. I think from December, 1961 or January, 1962

3 to September, 1967. Then from June -- August, 1968 to

4 September, 1969.

5 Mr. Wides. Now let me go back, and can you give us a

6 very brief summary of your positions with the Agency prior to

7 that? I don't mean detailed as to what you were doing.

8 Mr. Sarno. I joined the Agency in September of 1951.

9 Mr. Wides. Yes?

10 Mr. Sarno. I was assigned to three countries before I

11 hit Florida.

12 Mr. Wides. All in the Western Hemisphere Division?

13 Mr. Sarno. All in the Western Hemisphere.

14 Mr. Wides. So you had rather long stations in each of

15 those, three or four years?

16 Mr. Sarno. (Nods in the affirmative)

17 Mr. DeMarco. When did you become an American citizen?

18 Mr. Sarno. I was born in Ohio.

19 Mr. DeMarco. Had you been stationed with Mr. Phillips

20 in Cuba before you came to Miami, or were you in Cuba before

21 you came to Miami?

22 Mr. Sarno. Yes.

23 Mr. Wides. And that is when Mr. Noel was the Chief?

24 Mr. Sarno. Jim Noel was the Chief.

25 Mr. Wides. And you had contact with Mr. Phillips then?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# TOP SECRET

Mr. Wides. You never heard of any plots, nor of any arrested people attempting to shoot a bazooka when he was giving a speech at Havana Stadium?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. Let me go to the period when you went to Florida.

When you first came here, that was before Station Chief *Noel* had moved the whole station to Miami?

Mr. Sarno. *Noel* wasn't there. When I arrived in Florida, *Noel* was not then -- no, sir, he was not the station chief.

Mr. Wides. Who was the station chief?

Mr. Sarno. I don't think I should give you his name. I don't know. You have the rest of all of them, but I can't recall --

I can state that there were two station chiefs between *Noel* and Shackley, three of them, in fact.

Mr. Wides. Shackley came in when, 1963?

Mr. Sarno. '62.

Mr. Wides. When in '62?

Mr. Sarno. I think the spring of '62 is when it was.

Mr. Wides. When was he replaced by Mr. Dimmer?

Mr. Sarno. If I am not mistaken, it was in '64, I think. June, July, I think, something like that, of '64.

Mr. Wides. And then Mr. Dimmer was replaced in '66 by Mr. Hines, Paul Hines?

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

11

1 Mr. Sarno. Hines

2 Mr. Wides. And then Mr. Esterline replaced Mr. Hines,

3 or was there someone between?

4 Mr. Sarno. Mr. Esterline did not replace Mr. Hines.

5 Nobody replaced Hines, because they closed up the station.

6 Mr. Wides. We understand that the station was operating

7 very recently.

8 Mr. Sarno. Well, I'm not saying -- you see, the station

9 you spoke to before, you spoke of, went out of business in

10 June of 1960 when Mr. Hines left.

11 Mr. Wides. I see.

12 Now, what was the relationship between yourself and the

13 station? Administratively, and in terms of reporting, when

14 you first went down there.

15 Mr. Sarno. When I first went down there, I was outside.

16 I believe it was concerning clearances to get me into the

17 station, because I had never been working in a station before,

18 so there were special clearances. So at that time, those two

19 months you're speaking of, I attended a course and I may have

20 been sent out once or twice to interview a Cuban refugee or

21 one of our agents who had left Cuba.

22 Mr. Wides. And then you set up the AMOTS program? Did

23 you start that project, or was that started when you came in?

24 Mr. Sarno. It had been started, the nucleus had been

25 formed at that time.

NW 50955 DocId: 32202440 Page 6

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

TOP SECRET

13

Mr. Wides. And except where there's a question of an agent under cover who would be possibly exposed to harm or that kind of thing in regard to the mention of other Agency people, certainly at the level of Mr. Shackley or other officials, Mr. Dimmer, and so forth, that the general procedures have been that people at the Agency or retirees have not refused to disclose names.

Now, you certainly have your rights --

Mr. Sarno. No, sir. I am not questioning you, or anything, except I've been in this business a long time and I've never mentioned anybody's name. Now if somebody were to tell me, if Seymour Bolton were to tell me that I could tell you all the names of all my supervisors and everything, it's perfectly all right. But I've never mentioned a name and I feel that I shouldn't mention a name.

Mr. Wides. Well, we may have to take a break and do that, but let me go on.

With regard to the AMOTS program, the AMOTS Cubans were not contract agents of the station, is that correct?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. They were proprietary employees essentially of LASER, essentially?

Mr. Sarno. LASER was a group -- that proprietary was set up in September of 1968. Prior to that time they ware a bunch of Cubans just living down in Miami.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

TOP SECRET

14

1 Mr. Wides. And what was their relationship to the Agency
2 through you?

3 Mr. Sarno. They were a group of Cuban exiles who were
4 being funded to collect information, intelligence information,
5 on Cuba.

6 Mr. Wides. They were paid agents?

7 Mr. Sarno. They were paid agents.

8 Mr. Wides. Some of them received a fairly sophisticated
9 training in tradecraft, in some cases communications intercept
10 operations with regard to a station in Florida, and so forth,
11 is that not correct?

12 Mr. Sarno. Sophisticated equipment, yes, sir.

13 Mr. Wides. And tradecraft, general tradecraft training?

14 Mr. Sarno. General tradecraft training, yes, sir.

15 Communications.training -- well, most of them weren't
16 communicators, so they required very little if they did
17 receive training.

18 Mr. Wides. Would that put them in a little bit more
19 official status of some sort, whatever the category is called,
20 than simply being a paid informant?

21 Mr. Sarno. No, sir. They were just like paid informants
22 except we provided them funds to operate with.

23 They are no more -- they are not contract, we did not
24 have then under contract.

25 Mr. Wides. But they would still get training?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# TOP SECRET

15

Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.

Mr. Wides. And the program first operated where? Where did you physically locate? Were you at the University of Miami, at the Naval Air Station at the begining?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. Where were you at first?

Mr. Sarno. Are you speaking of our station? Our station was physically at the Air Station, but these Cubans did not know where the station was.

Mr. Wides. And you just contacted them separately?

Mr. Sarno. They had houses that they rented and they worked out of different houses, and there were many of them, so I can't recall them.

Mr. Wides. Did you have an office facility apart from the station?

Mr. Sarno. Myself?

Mr. Wides. Yes.

Mr. Sarno. On one occasion, for a very short period, I had an office.

Mr. Wides. Where was the Zenith Corporation?

Mr. Sarno. The Zenith Corporation was located on the south campus of Miami.

Mr. Wides. Apart from the station?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. That was a cover?

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

TOP SECRET

16

Mr. Sarno. That was the station.

Mr. Wides. And what was the mission and purpose of AMUTS when you first started out, as indicated in the project outline?

Mr. Sarno. They were to collect intelligence on Cuba, debrief refugees and provide bodies for any possible operations required by the station.

Mr. Wides. They were to debrief refugees?

Mr. Sarno. Debrief refugees, collect and evaluate, maintain records.

Mr. Wides. Was there a division of the AMUTS members into two groups, with only a small group involving the debriefing of Cuban refugees?

Mr. Sarno. Well, it wasn't too small a group, but if you would speak of the whole organization overall, yes, it was a small group.

Mr. Wides. And at what point did you set up any cover apart from the station as a proprietary or notional company; in between the AMUTS people and the Miami station? In other words, were the companies prior to the Latin America social and economic research company that preceeded it, in time?

Mr. Sarno. In the time that I handled them, which is up to the LASER I think there were three, three covers all told, or perhaps four. I think we had our debriefing, you know, under one cover.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

TOP SECRET

17

1 Mr. Wides. That was from the start? You had a separate
2 cover for the debriefing?

3 Mr. Sarno. Well, from the start we didn't have a place
4 for them, and it wasn't pulled together as a debriefing unit.

5 When a large flow of refugees started to come in is when we set
6 up the special unit.

7 Mr. Wides. When was that?

8 Mr. Sarno. Well, they cut off --

9 Mr. Wides. '64, '63?

10 Mr. Sarno. It could have been '62, late '62 or '63. And
before, we used to send our debriefers, they were within the
12 AMOTS group, specialists in debriefing, area specialists is
13 the kind we used. And we would go out to the reception center
14 and check around and see who had come out of the particular
15 area.

16 Mr. Wides. At Opa-Locka?

17 Mr. Sarno. At Opa-Locka.

18 And our debriefers would go out and check around with the
19 people who came in and try to spot somebody who would be
20 interesting to interview, debrief, concerning the particular
21 area. And so they usually picked them up in a car and either
22 took them to a restaurant or took them to a motel or something
23 and would debrief them. And then we found that it would be
24 better to get a building for them to be in where we located
25 them altogether, where they could prepare their reports and

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

TOP SECRET

1 everything.

2 Mr. Wides. And so that's when you first set up the
3 proprietary for the smaller debriefing component of AMUTS?

4 Mr. Sarno. Well, I set up the proprietaries, the notionary
5 company for a small debriefing office, and at the same time,
6 we rented a building, a larger building, and they used to
7 operate in Coral Gables, received some publicity and we moved
8 them out of Coral Gables to near the airport in a building where
9 the main office was, where this main office was, where these
10 reports from the debriefers or any other information was
11 collected would be processed, typed in finished form, translated
12 and provided to us.

13 Mr. Wides. About how many people did you have in AMUTS
14 Cubans at that time?

15 Mr. Sarno. Well, that's difficult to say.

16 Mr. Wides. 150? Would you say 150?

17 Mr. Sarno. I would say inside, outside, it could be
18 close to 150.

19 Mr. Wides. Did you have more than a dozen or so working
20 in the component on debriefing?

21 Mr. Sarno. As I recall, at one time -- as I recall it,
22 we had about 22, 23 people working in debriefing.

23 Mr. Wides. And apart from those Cubans, you had a staff
24 under you of assistants and secretaries who were Agency
25 assigned personnel?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# TOP SECRET

19

1 Mr. Sarno. Yes.

2 Mr. Wides. What kind of staff did you have?

3 Mr. Sarno. Well, it started off originally since we weren't big, I started off with one secretary, and it eventually

4 ended up that there were one or two Intel assistants --

5 Mr. Wides. These were Agency personnel?

6 Mr. Sarno. Agency personnel.

7 --.and two or three case officers.

8 Mr. Wides. The case officers handled segments of the

9 Mr. Sarno. Segments of the AMOTS:

10 Mr. Wides. Now, the other, speaking very roughly, hundred

11 and fifty or so AMUTS, Cubans, you said some twenty were involved when the debriefing program intensified. What were

12 the other hundred-odd Cubans involved in?

13 Mr. Sarno. Well, we had records personnel, we had I would say six or seven who only worked in records and main-

14 taining of files, and general index cards, and that was it.

15 Then we had what we called our reports section which may have had about fifteen people, twenty people, who wrote reports,

16 checked them out, cross-referenced, and everything else that was involved in that.

17 Mr. Wides. What kind of reports did they write? What were they writing reports about?

18 Mr. Sarno. Economic -- whatever they were learning from


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# TOP SECRET

1 against Cuba, and had weapons they weren't supposed to have.

2 Mr. Wides. Like Alpha-66?

3 Mr. Sarno. Alpha-66, there were many of them.

4 And we usually had one of our outside types, either

5 recruit or get next to an individual of the group and he would

6 penetrate the group himself to report to us what they were

7 doing.

8 Mr. Wides. Do you recall the flights of the Diaz, or one

9 of the Diz brothers, over Havana dropping leaflets?

10 Mr. Sarno. What date was it?

11 Mr. Wides. I believe it was quite early, and it was not

12 in connection with the AMOTS

13 Mr. Sarno. I know the Diaz brothers.

14 Mr. Wides. Do you recall hearing of flights with -- one

15 of them with Frank Sturgis over Havana dropping leaflets?

16 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

17 Mr. Wides. It was fairly widely known.

18 Mr. Sarno. Well, I didn't get into Cubans until maybe

19 it was June of '60, but the only leaflets I ever saw fly over

20 Cuba was_the day before the invasion. Those were the only

21 ones I saw.

22 Mr. Wides. When you were in Miami, did you have any

23 contact with Frank Sturgis, Frank Fiorini?

24 Mr. Sarno. Never, never. To my knowledge, he never worked

25 for us.

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1 Mr. Wides. Not getting back to the bulk of the AMOTS

2 group, apart from the reporting on refugees and the efforts

3 to keep tabs, which I guess is a summary of what you are

4 saying on what exile groups might be doing that the government

5 might otherwise not know about, is it correct that there was

6 surveillance of the Miami community generally with regard to

7 possible Castro agents?

8 Mr. Sarno. Not that I know of.

9 Mr. Wides. There was no counterintelligence program in

10 the AMOTS?

11 Mr. Sarno. We had a counterintelligence component in the

12 AMOTS Program.

13 Mr. Wides. Why don't you describe that?

14 Mr. Sarno. The counterintelligence program consisted of

15 very capable Cubans who knew of the former -- the set-up of

16 the intelligence agency inside of Cuba, so if anybody were to

17 come out, any refugee were to come out and name an individual

18 that was a friend of theirs that we knew or suspected of

19 working for the internal security which was the DSE or their

20 external service, the DGI, our counterintelligence group or

21 one of the individuals would go out and debrief the fellow

22 and collect names, and prepare reports on it, and they maintained

23 files, and that is what it is.

24 They never got under a surveillance of any of them, because

25 once a report was written they suspected somebody. They maintaine

NW 50955 DocId: 32202440 Page 15

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

WARD & PAUL

a file of them, and when Cuban refugees would come in, they
would receive lists of names to check in their files, and if
they suspected one, then they would gather all of the
information possible on this individual, prepare a report,
name their sources, and they would pass it to the station.
The station in turn would prepare a memorandum and send it to
the bureau.

Mr. Wides. Is it your sworn testimony that you never knew
of any surveillances or efforts to penetrate groups for
counterintelligence purposes by Cubans under your supervision?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir, no. You're speaking of penetrating
groups, yes. They penetrated groups. Surveillance -- I never
sent them out on a mission to surveil anybody concerning whether
they were suspect or whatever.

Mr. Wides. Was there any surveillance of Cubans in Miami
conducted by -- whether it was in cooperation with the Bureau
or not -- conducted by any of the AMOTs Cubans that you were
aware of?

Mr. Sarno. I cannot recall if there ever was.

Mr. Wides. I don't mean a specific one.

Mr. Sarno. I don't recall ever giving them any assignments.

Mr. Wides. I'm not talking about assignments, I'm
talking about whether you're aware of their conducting --

Mr. Sarno. As I say, I do not recall them conducting
any surveillance on anybody.

NW 50955 DocId: 32202440 Page 16

# TOD SECRET

23


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Wides. Any telephone taps?

2 Mr. Sarno. Never any telephone taps, we didn't have

3 telephone tap capability.

4 Mr. Wides. Any photography?

5 Mr. Sarno. We had a photographer.

6 Mr. Wides. When was he used? In what circumstances?

7 Mr. Sarno. Well, the biggest majority of his work was

8 to copy certain documents.

9 Mr. Wides. I mean photographic surveillance.

10 Mr. Sarno. There may have been. I really can't state

11 which one he was used on if he was ever used for photographic

12 surveillance.

13 Mr. Wides. Which what he was used on?

14 Mr. Sarno. I mean if he was used on photographic

15 surveillance. I don't recall ever ordering him out on photo-

16 graphic surveillance.

17 Mr. Wides. Do you recall if there ever was any photo-

18 graphic surveillance carried out by any of the AMOTS?

19 Mr. Sarno. I have no recollection. I do not recall.

20. Mr. Wides. Were you getting reports of any sort, whether

21 you would characterize it as surveillance or not, on people

22 who had already come and were in Miami as distinct from the

23 interview reports when the refugees first came?

24 Isn't it correct that the AMOTS personnel were providing

25 you with reports on Cubans who were already in Miami?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# TOP SECRET

25

1 Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.

2 Mr. Wides. Would you describe that program?

3 Mr. Sarno. Certainly. As I said, they penetrated these

4 groups, they would go around and then they would sit and talk

5 and as you would call it, the surveillance, the fact that they

6 penetrated, they would sit at the table and report on the

7 individual and what the individual said and what they were

8 planning. We call it penetration.

9 To me, surveillance is to put two men on the street

10 following somebody from one place to another.

11 Mr. Wides. Were there ever occasions when the station

12 was suspicious as to whether Cubans in Miami might be Castro

13 agents that you were aware of?

14 Mr. Sarno. Many.

15 Mr. Wides. Did they ever ask for any assistance in the

16 AMUTS group in trying to keep tabs on those individuals or

17 to test their suspicions?

18 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

19 Mr. Wides. Who would do that?

20 Mr. Sarno. It would be the CI section of the station.

21 Mr. Wides. You don't recall any situation in which -

22 Mr Sarno. In which AMUTS participated? No, sir.

23 Mr. Wides. -- working with the FBI.

24 Mr. Sarno. The FBI occasionally would ask for the

25 services of one of the AMUTS, but it was mainly not to surveil


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# TOP SECRET

26

1 anybody. It was to provide information to them because their

2 name would come up somewhere in a case.

3 Mr. Wides. What kind of assistance? You mean more than

4 just a chance to interview them?

5 Mr. Sarno. No, just interview. They never used them to

6 run a man on the street or anything like that, no, sir.

7 They tried to get one individual one time and they didn't know

8 that he worked for us and they tried to hire him and he came

9 back and reported it. We had to advise them that he was

10 already working for us.

11 Mr. Wides. And you had 115 men and all---

12 Mr. Sarno. There were women also, sir.

13 Mr. Wides. And women, and all they were doing was

14 interviewing refugees and writing reports on exile potential

15 activities against Cuba?

16 Mr. Sarno. I would say that was the biggest majority of

17 their job.

18 Mr. Wides. What was the rest of it?

19 Mr. Sarno. They also went out, if our station was going

20 to run an operation and they needed X amount of bodies, certain

21 specialized personnel, the AMUETS would go and locate the

22 personnel, talk to them, spot them, get their personal history

23 from them, send it in, and the people would be traced out and

24 checked and cleared and eventually introduced to the station

25 case officer who would use them in our operations.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

TOP SECRET

27

Mr. Wides. Who arranged for the training at the training station at Parrott(?), was that used?

Mr. Sarno. For whom?

Mr. Wides. When the AMOTS people received training, some various kind of tradecraft, who would arrange that, yourself?

Mr. Sarno. December, 1961 when I took it over there were only three cases of AMUTS who were sent away for special training. Three cases, three individuals.

One came here to Washington, the other was going to be loaned to a station overseas. He came up and received training.

The majority of the training given to the AMOTS was down in Miami, Florida.

Mr. Wides. And what kind was that?

Mr. Sarno. Basic tradecraft, reports writing --

Mr. Wides. Did they ever get training in surveillance?

Mr. Sarno. Yes, they received training in surveillance.

Mr. Wides. Why did they get that?

Mr. Sarno. Well, that is part of their program of training them as a group.

Mr. Wides. Even though there was no use of them for surveillance purposes?

Mr. Sarno. I do not recall, sir, ever sending them out on a surveillance.

Mr. DeMarco. Who conducted the training?

Mr. Sarno. Our Training Branch, personnel from our

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000 28

1 Training Branch.

2 Mr. DeMarco. From Washington?

3 Mr. Sarno. Yes.

4 Mr. Wides. You say the majority of the training was in

5 Florida. What period are we talking about, throughout the

6 period?

7 Mr. Sarno. It could be spread over. Reports writing,

8 for instance, when the Agency, or when the station was being

9 cut back in personnel, this group used to produce tons of

10 reports, and when our station was being cut, the staff was

11 being cut, I convinced the Chief of Station into having the

12 reports officers, for instance, trained to prepare reports

13 which would require very little editing or preparation once

14 it arrived in the station, which would take a load off the

15 station, and it was agreed to.

16 Mr. Wides. You arranged in general for the training or

17 the training office?

18 Mr. Sarno. I never trained.

19 Mr. Wides. But they worked through you administratively?

20 Mr. Sarno. Yes.

21 Mr. Wides. So you were familiar with all the training

22 personnel would have got?

23 Mr. Sarno. I would say all of the training that they

24 received during the period I was with them, with the exception

25 of that one year there, and also I must state that although I

NW 50955 DocId: 32202440 Page 21

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# TOP SECRET

30

Mr. Wides. There were some new people coming in?

Mr. Sarno. Yes. Some of the people would move, they got a job that paid them more, but there were very few that came in after the original, say about 1964 I would say it was well established and very few dropped out or were taken aboard there-
after.

Mr. Wides. They all got what you referred to earlier as basic tradecraft training?

Mr. Sarno. No, not all of them.

Mr. Wides. How many?

Mr. Sarno. There were very few of them in the original group. I never had them trained in basic tradecraft. The original group which I took over which, if I am not mistaken, was about eighteen of them, and I understand that prior to the Bay of Pigs --

Mr. Wides. Eighteen in AMUTS or eighteen in training?

Mr. Sarno. Eighteen in AMUTS all told.

I understood that prior to the Bay of Pigs these AMUTS had been given basic tradecraft training. I never once sent them out to receive basic tradecraft training.

Mr. Wides. After you came -- when you came there were eighteen AMUTS and eventually we're talking about 150, roughly, or more?

Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.

Mr. Wides. And you never knew of any of the people who

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

TOP SECRET

31

1 joined AMUTS after you took over getting general tradecraft?

2 Mr. Sarno. No, sir, no, sir.

3 Mr. Wides. And to your knowledge it was only report

4 writing?

5 Mr. Sarno. Well, they trained them in each one of the

6 sections, and I didn't train the debriefers, so if a new man
was hired and he was put in a debriefing, he was trained u
usually by the Chief of the Debriefing Group, he was put in
there to work along with other debriefers to catch onto the
thing.

11 Mr. Wides. Now your testimony with regard to surveillance
training, who issued that, or how many people?

13 Mr. Sarno. If I am not mistaken, it was four or five.

14 Mr. Wides. When you first came, or shortly therafter?

15 Mr. Sarno. Yes, it was all at the -- now, now, just one

16 second, because I went in surveillance training myself.

17 I don't recall whether this four or five whom we trained
in surveillance were trained while I had them or they were
trained before I took them.

20. Mr. Wides. Now after that, those four or five, no other

21 AMOMS people to your knowledge received any surveillance
training, is that your testimony?

23 Mr. Sarno. That is true, sir.

24 Mr. Wides. What about picks and locks?

25 Mr. Sarno. Nobody.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

32

1 Mr. Wides. That you know of received --

2 Mr. Sarno. Not a single one that I know of.

3 Mr. Wides. Did you know anybody at AMUTS who had

4 capability of any previous experience at picks and locks,

5 surreptitious entry?

6 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

7 Mr. Wides. You were not aware of anyone at AMUTS having

8 that capability?

9 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

10 Mr. Wides. You never discussed it with anyone at the
station?

11 Mr. Sarno. Possibly.

12 Mr. Wides. Well, let me ask the question, the

13 capabilities in the area of surreptitious entry or picking

14 locks and no part of AMUTS people in all those years?

15 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

16 Mr. Wides. Were the group that were locat d in your

17 homestate that were involved in the interception of any

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

18 traffic, radio traffic or Cuban, were they under your supervision?

19 Mr. Sarno. They were originally under my supervision,

20 and later the station brought an individual down from Head-

21 quarters and took over that operation.

22 Mr. Wides. And when was that?

23 Mr. Sarno. Well, the station always had somebody at the

24 station who was reviewing all of their work and passing

NW 50955 DocId: 32202440 Page 24

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# TOP SECRET

1 instructions. I handled them for a long time.

2 Mr. Wides. Until roughly?

3 Mr. Sarno. Until roughly the arrival of Mr. Dimmer. You have the date there. I think Mr. Dimmer's the one who brought down the fellow from Headquarters.

4 Mr. Wides. And these people received some training regarding the use of *intercept* equipment even if they had some experience as radio operators, isn't that true?

5 Mr. Sarno. Sir, I really don't know.

6 I know that I never brought an instructor down to train them in the use of radio equipment. These individuals had worked in this work in Cuba before they came out --

7 Mr. Wides. In *intercept* work like this?

8 Mr. Sarno. In *intercept* work, yes. We had two very brilliant fellows who were the top people in the communications field in Cuba.

9 And most of the radio operators had had up to twenty years experience, they were elderly people, and they had been in radio and they could read and they could send it out very well.

10 Mr. Wides. So your testimony is that --

11 Mr. Sarno. I do not recall them ever having been trained by anybody, in any sense.

12 Mr. Wides. Or communications in general?

13 Mr. Sarno. Now communications generally, I cannot say that.

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

TOP SECRET

34

1 because several of the AMUTS were trained and several of them

2 who were brought out of Cuba, because several of them were in

3 Cuba as radio operators and then they came out. They were

4 in the Miami group not operating radios, but --

5 Mr. Wides. But during your administration of the AMUTS

6 group as case officer, you don't recall any training being

7 given in communications?

8 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

9 Mr. Wides. Do you recall any cooperation of the AMUTS

10 people with the FBI and other Federal agencies trying to DF

11 and identify suspected illegal wireless operators in Miami,

12 Castro agents?

13 Mr. Sarno. No, sir, they never did.

14 Mr. Wides. AMUTS was not involved in that?

15 Mr. Sarno. No, I never heard of any. You must remember

16 that when Dimmer came down and brought the fellow, I never saw

17 the traffic anymore, but during the period that I was looking

18 at the traffic, and I was directing that special intercept

19 group as part of the AMUTS, I never once gave them an order

20 and never saw any that they did.

21 Mr. Wides. When Mr. Shackley was the station chief, did

22 you report to him or someone selse?

23 Mr. Sarno. I reported to my branch chief.

24 Mr. Wides. And what was that branch?

25 Mr. Sarno. FI Branch, Foreign Intelligence.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# TOP SECRET
35

1 Mr. Wides. And that was the same procedure throughout

2 the period?

3 Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.

4 Mr. Wides. Up til '67?

5 Mr. Sarno. Through '67. Well, let's see, now. No, sir.

6 Well, it was, because later they made the *AMUTS* group, it

7 became a branch, and they brought in a very senior officer to

8 be the Branch Chief, and I was considered the Deputy Branch

9 Chief. Mr. Dimmer brought in the senior officer.

10 Mr. Wides. And you don't feel like you can give us his
name?

11 Mr. Sarno. There's no reason not to. He is retired now.
Bill Caldwell.

13

14 Mr. Wides. What contact did you have with a man who

15 called himself *San Jenis?*

16 Mr. Sarno. He was the Chief of the MI Group, the Cuban
Chief.

17 Mr. Wides. *Joaquin San Jenis?*

18 Mr. Sarno. *San Jenis.*

19 Mr. Wides. And he was your principal contact?

20. Mr. Sarno. He was my principal -- he was the head, the

21 Cuban head of it.

22 Mr. Wides. Are you familiar with the history of the *AMUTS*

23 group that he prepared in the late '60's, or worked on?

24 Mr Sarno. In the late '60's?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

TOP SECRET

36

1 Mr. Wides. I thought so. I thought in '66 or '67, that

2 is what I meant, that he had worked on the history of the AMUTS

3 group.

4 Mr. Sarno. Well, no.

5 Mr. Wides. Are you familiar with the written history of

6 the AMUTS program?

7 Mr. Sarno. I have never seen it. I had established the

8 policy that every three months he had to write up about the

9 group, so all of that, I understand, was all compiled into the

10 history, so I don't know.

11 Mr. Wides. As part of the Miami Station?

12 Mr. Sarno. As part of the Miami Station, so I don't think

13 he was told in '66 or '67, start all over and prepare it.

14 Mr. Wides. You think it was a consolidation?

15 Mr. Sarno. I think it was consolidated over the years.

16 Mr. Wides. And this is entitled what, do you know?

17 Mr. Sarno. I supposed it would be The History of the

18 AMUTS

19 Mr. Wides. And you've never seen it?

20 Mr. Sarno. I've never seen it.

21 Mr. Wides. Do you know if it's at Headquarters in the

22 Latin American Division?

23 Mr. Sarno. I do not know.

24 Mr. Wides. When the Cuban Operations Group was set up --

25 let's go back -- in '61 when you took over was approximately

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# TOP SECRET
37
1 the period when Mr. Harvey was setting up the staff Task Force

2 W, is that correct?

3 What contact, if any, did you have with Task Force W personnel as distinct from the station itself?

5 Mr. Sarno. None whatsoever.

6 Mr. Wides. They never came down and spoke to you?

7 Mr. Sarno. When I came out of Cuba, when I escaped from Cuba, I was brought up here to Headquarters and debriefed, so

9 I imagine that the person that debriefed me, this is in July of '61, I would imagine that individual was part of the Task Force.

11 Mr. Wides. I think that was still in the Division. They had not split the Task Force until the winter of '61, '62.

14 Mr. Sarno. I see. Well --

15 Mr. Wides. But after that when you were in Florida, you had no contact with anyone, to your knowledge, other than the Station personnel?

18 Mr. Sarno. Well, I don't know. Occasionally they would call me to Washington to discuss something.

20 Mr. Wides. And did you discuss something with people in the Task Force, the Cuban Task Force?

22 Mr. Sarno. The Cuban Task Force.

23 Mr. Wides. Mr. Cheevers?

24 Mr. Sarno. I know Mr. Cheevers, yes.

25 Mr. Wides. And did you have any contact with Desmond

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# TOP SECRET

38

FitzGerald when it became the Special Activities Staff and he took it over?

Mr. Sarno. I know Desmond FitzGerald, or I knew him, and discussed operations with him -- no, I never sat down and discussed an operation. I met him at a party, and that was all.

Mr. Wides. And when you came to Washington what kind of discussions would you have about the AMOTS program?

Mr. Sarno. I made so many trips to Washington, I say I was also the case officer, I used to travel and recruit people.

I do not specifically recall ever being called to Washington to discuss AMOTS.

Mr. Wides. But do you recall ever discussing the AMOTS program and the Cubans in it while you were in Washington?

Mr. Sarno. Well, if I would come up on a trip and some of the people who were sitting on a desk here who were maintaining the records and everything of the AMOTS, I suppose, yes, they would come around and discuss perhaps the budget or perhaps get them to report in a different manner. I recall on one occasion discussing the set-up of how the AMOTS group prepared the debriefing reports, that they could remove the names from it, instead of filing them inside the report, they put the names on cards so they could be put into a computer machine here.

Mr. Wides. In the period when Mr. Shackley and Mr. Dimmer were Station Chiefs, which would be '63 through '65 or so, did

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000 39

1 you have any contact with Mr. Sternfeld or Mr. Esterline?

2 Mr. Sarno. Which period is this?

3 Mr. Wides. '62 to '65 or so.

4 Mr. Sarno. Mr. Esterline, who I believe at that time

5 was -- Mr. Esterline was --

6 Mr. Wides. Was he in Miami?

7 Mr. Sarno. No, Mr. Esterline was on the staff he -- I don't know whether it was on the staff of the Task Force or

8 who at that time, but I knew Mr. Esterline, first from his
visits.

9 I first met Mr. Esterline when he came to Miami in

10 either late '61 or early '62, and I never saw him again until

11 he used to make his trips down, and then I understand he was

12 assigned overseas.

13 Mr. Wides. Did you discuss the AMUTS Program with him?

14 Mr. Sarno. At that period?

15 Mr. Wides. At any time.

16 Mr. Sarno. Well, yes, he was my Station Chief at one
time.

17 Mr. Wides. You mean in '68 or '69?

18 Mr. Sarno. That's right.

19. Mr. Wides. But not prior to that?

20 Mr. Sarno. Well, yes, he came down on -- prior to his

21 coming down and setting up the new station, he came down and

22 discussed with all of us who might remain at our jobs there.

23 Mr. Wides. But not in the early period of the '60's?

NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 31

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Sarno. Not in the earlier --

2 Mr. Wides. What about Larry Sternfeld?

3 Mr. Sarno. No, Mr. Sternfeld was never connected with the Cuban thing until early '68.

4 Mr. Wides. Let me go back to the cover companies.

5 You say you set up one company for the smaller group, or one notional that was handling the --

6 Mr. Sarno. Refugees.

7 Mr. Wides. Refugees.

8 Can you give us the name of that?

9 Mr. Sarno. I don't recall it, sir.

10 Mr. Wides. Now, was there a separate company --

11 Mr. Sarno. For the principal group.

12 Mr. Wides. And what was that?

13 Mr. Sarno. Well, you named it off, the Latin American Research --

14 Mr. Wides. I thought you said that didn't start until '68?

15 Mr. Sarno. No, sir, LASER started in '68.

16 Mr. Wides. Latin American Social and Economic Research?

17 Mr. Sarno. Is that what that stands for? There was a Latin American Research that they had.

18 Mr. Wides. Latin American Research Company?

19 Mr. Sarno. Yeah.

20 Mr. Wides. What was its cover?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

TOP SECRET

41

Mr. Sarno. They were supposed to be doing, researching Latin America, since they had a lot of files, and you could hear a lot of typewriters clicking all over the place.

Mr. Wides. And what's your best recollection of the name?

Mr. Sarno. My best recollection is Latin American Trade and Research.

Mr. Wides. Company?

Mr. Sarno. Company.

Mr. Wides. Did it have any other names? I think you suggested there were even more than two proprietaries and more than two notionals. Did you have three or four going at one point?

Mr. Sarno. Well, it was at one point, at one point there were three of them, if you included the Intercept. The Intercept people had another name.

Mr. Wides. But basically there were --

Mr. Sarno. There could have been three of them at one time, and basically there were two, yes. One of them was Marine -- that's it. I think the debriefing group came under Marine Research, or something like that.

Mr. Wides. When do you first recall being approached about possible use of AMOTO people outside the Miami area in the United States?

Mr. Sarno. Use of AMOTO people outside the Miami area?

Mr. Wides. In the United States.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# TOP SECRET
42
1 Mr. Sarno. Nobody ever approached me on it. They were
2 outside of Miami, but the thing that happens is the Chief of
3 the Miami group, when an *AM01* would leave
4 Mr. Wides. This is *Mr. San Jenis?*
5 Mr. Sarno. When one of the *AMUTS* would leave for his
6 reasons, they would always maintain contact with *Mr. San Jenis*
7 when they would move to any area, and all they would do is to
8 report on Cuban exiles in that area.
9 Mr. Wides. And would the fact that they were leaving and
10 going to another area be reported by you, back through channels
11 to Washington for relay to CIA personnel in the area where
12 they were going? Was this ever done?
13 Mr. Sarno. Yes, it was done, yes.
14 Mr. Wides. And was it not uncommon in the case of Cubans
15 going to the New York area? Does that happen fairly frequently?
16 Mr. Sarno. Well, since it was handled in such a loose
17 way, in that it was between *San Jenis* and this individual and
18 we didn't have them on the payroll.
19 Mr. Wides. You mean you didn't have them on the payroll
20 in the sense of employees, they were regularly paid agents,
21 informants?
22 Mr. Sarno. They were given funds by *San Jenis*, which
23 obviously were authorized for sort of like operational expenses.
24 Mr. Wides. Excuse me. You're talking about when they
25 were in Florida, or when they were moving?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

TOP SECRET

43

Mr. Sarno. No, when they were in New York, if they went to New York.

Mr. Wides. Well, let's go back.

The first question I was asking you was with regard to your relaying to CIA personnel the fact that someone who had been at AMOTS in Florida was going elsewhere and you said that that happened, and then I asked you -- we will come to the operational relationships in a moment -- how frequently that happened in regard to people coming to New York. For example, I assume that there were a fair number of Cubans generally in there for one or two members of AMOTS who went up to New York during the course of all of these years.

Mr Sarno. No, sir, no, sir.

Mr. Wides. Would you say several dozen or a dozen?

Mr. Sarno. So far as I recall, there was only one that ever went up there, and he in turn collected two or three of his other friends around him who formed a little nucleus, but there was only one AMOT that went.

Mr. Wides. What about other cities? What other cities do you recall people went to?

Mr. Sarno. In the United States?

Mr. Wides. Yes.

Washington?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir. San Juan, Puerto Rico, and that's all, in the United States.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

TOP SECRET

44

Mr. Wides. Chicago?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. Anyplace on the West Coast or the Southwest?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. Boston?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. So you only recall persons who had been in

telling -- why don't we refer to him as San Jenis-

that they were going to another city as being New York and San Juan?

Mr. Sarno. New York and San Juan are the only two I ever recall they ever had any MUTSkor ex-AMUTS or people that had been in the organization went.

Mr. Wides. Now when they went and they recruited other people, was that San Jenis suggestion or under his supervision?

Mr. Sarno. They usually collected a group around people that they trusted.

Mr. Wides. Was that up to San Jenis supervision and direction?

Mr. Sarno. He directed them to do it, yes. I didn't even know the individual, I never met him. It's one individual.

Mr. Wides. Did he speak to you about the fact that he was going to do this, Mr. Sam Jenia?

Did he consult with you on it?

Mr. Sarno. Well, I believe it came up -- I knew the fellow

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

TOP SECRET

45
1 was leaving, because he was taken off of the role as being in
2 Miami, and we may have, discussed his being used while he was in
3 New York in case anything ever came up.

4 Mr. Wides. Do you recall discussing it?

5 Mr. Sarno. Well, yes, we did discuss it, obviously it
6 was discussed, because this fellow came up with a big thing
7 when they were going to bazooka the UN building.

8 Mr. Wides. Was this one of the Novo brothers -- or was
9 either of the Novo brothers in *AWUTS* in Florida? I believe
10 this is the name of the two people who were arrested at the
11 time.

12 Mr. Sarno. No, the *AMUTH* that was in New York is the one
13 that discovered the plot and we informed the Bureau and the
14 Bureau moved in on it.

15 Mr. Wides. You informed the Bureau?

16 Mr. Sarno. We informed the Bureau of that shelling of
17 the UN, and it was the *AMOTS*, this one *ANUP* up there who got
18 the information.

19 Mr. Wides. And he relayed that to someone in New York, or
20 back, through *San Jenis*, to you?

21 Mr. Sarno. He relayed it to *San Jenis* and we -- he
22 informed us, and we in turn advised our base in New York who
23 in turn advised the Bureau.

24 Mr. Wides. Which base is that, the Domestic Operations or
25 the Security Office?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# TOP SECRET

46

tape Ba
Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1 Mr. Sarno. Domestic Operations.

2 (Discussion off the record.)

3 Mr. Wides. With regard to the information received from

4 the former AMUT in New York about the plot to shoot a bazooka

5 at the UN, was Mr. Shackley the Station Chief at the time you

6 received that information?

7 Mr. Sarno. I don't recall the date, but the date was

8 between early '62, which it had to have been, and -- because

9 Shackley left which I think was in July of '64 and that would

10 have meant he was the Chief of Station.

11 Mr. Wides. Well, didn't he just indicate before while we

12 were taking a rbreak that you had recalled that Shackley was

13 the Station Chief?

14 Mr. Sarno. I don't recall whether he was exactly the

15 Station Chief or not. I can't place the date with what had

16 happened, so I know I went back to the Station and I reported

17 it, and it in turn was reported. Now, if I told it to Shackley

18 or if I told it to Dimmer, if I told it to the two different

19 Branch Chiefs that were there at the time, I do not recall.

20 Mr. Wides. Now would that report be in the MOTS file?

21 Mr. Sarno. In the history?

22 Mr. Wides. No, in the file, the project file.

23 If we got that date when that took place, the date when

24 the Agency had the information, would your report and report of

25 the branch or station in Florida be in the AMUTS project file

NW 50955 DocId: 32202440 Page 38

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# TOP SECRET

1 or would it be in some other file?

2 Mr. Sarno. I don't think that they maintain a chrono on

3 AMUTS! It was voluminous. Once they were processed by the

4 Agency and put into our communications channel, be it by

5 dispatch or by cable, I don't think they retained all of those

6 tons of files.

7 Mr. Wides. Do you recall who the FI Branch Chief was at

8 the time?

9 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

10 If you give me a date that I know --

11 Mr. Wides. I believe it was '64.

12 Mr. Sarno. If it was early 1964, then Mr. Shackley was

13 there. If it was late 1964 when Dimmer came, then there was

14 another branch, so there were two branch chiefs.

15 Mr. Wides. Now did you relay this information, did you say, to Washington, or directly to New York?

17 Mr. Sarno. Sir, I never handled communications.

18 Mr. Wides. Well, I didn't mean you --

19 Mr. Sarno. If I write it up, I give it to my branch chief

20 and my branch chief in turn sends it out. But to me, it would seem logical, knowing communications, that we would send the

22 cable directly to New York with info to Washington.

23 Mr. Wides. Were you ever told that communications had been made to New York? You said before --

25 Mr. Sarno. Yes, I was told, because I think there may have

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# TOP SECRET

1 been a cable or something coming down and giving the boys

2 credit for the thing.

3 Mr. DeMarco. Do you recall now the name of this one

4 AMUTS who went to New York?

5 Mr. Sarno. His name was Enrique.

6 Mr. Wides. Could you spell that?

7 Mr. Sarno. E-n-r-i-q-u-e, that is his first name.

8 I don't recall his last name.

9 Mr. DeMarco. Lazarus?

10 Mr. Sarno. No. Lazarus is not a last name.

11 Mr. Wides. How many people did he have working with him?

12 Mr. Sarno. Sir, I don't recall, but I know there was more

13 than one or two.

14 Mr. Wides. And would San Jenis give you reports that he

15 sent down to San Jenis?

16 Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.

17 Mr. Wides. And what did the reports talk about?

18 Mr. Sarno. They were on Cuban exiles, groups, collection

19 of money, Alpha 66 and people of that group who were up in

20 New York City.

21 Mr. Wides. Was it your impression at the time that this

22 group had no contact with any CIA offices in New York?

23 Mr. Sarno. Which group, sir?

24 Mr. Wides. The group that this fellow Enrique had.

25 Mr. Sarno. Had no contacts with anybody else?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# TOP SECRET

49

1 Mr. Wides. With any CIA offices in New York. Was your
2 impression that the only contact that he had with CIA was all
3 the way back through Miami?

4 Mr. Sarno. I believe that was the case, yes, sir.

5 Mr. Wides. You had no understanding?

6 Mr. Sarno. Well, obviously once this thing came up, we
7 put this fellow in contact with somebody in the base up there
8 who in turn delivered them to the Bureau.

9 Mr. Wides. And this was the Domestic Operations Base, not
10 the Security Office?

11 Mr. Sarno. Domestic Operations.

12 Mr. Wides. Now thereafter, did they keep contact wit-
13 this group?

14 Mr. Sarno. I cannot recall.

15 Mr. Wides. Did you continue after that incident to get
16 reports through San Jenis?

17 Mr. Sarno. I believe so, yes.

18 Mr. Wides. With no indication whether they were also in
19 touch with the Agency?

20. Mr Sarno. No, sir.

21 Mr. Wides. You weren't curious, or did you ever inquire?

22 Mr. Sarno. Well, I would believe it to be that they were
23 not in contact with anybody up there, because if the report
24 were to come down, they would probably have indicated in their
25 report that they had passed this information on.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

TOP SECRET

50

Mr. Wides. No, I mean after that, after they were put in touch with the base.

Mr. Sarno. That's what I was speaking of. Many reports that came there after, they would have indicated that it had been passed, and I don't recall ever reading a report from them that he had passed the information on to any contact up there.

Mr. Wides. Do you recall any instance in which the Agency asked, through you, and in turn through Mr. Jenis that particular people in New York be watched or investigated?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. How would they decide what groups or what individuals to penetrate or keep under surveillance?

Mr. Sarno. Well there were the active groups. This fellow used to come down to Miami and he would talk to San Jenis and San Jenis would tell him, here is people here who are talking about collecting money, about a supposed operation, how much money are they getting for it

Mr. Wides. Where would he get that information from, from you?

Mr. Sarno. Get what?

Mr. Wides. Where would San Jenis get that

Mr. Sarno. The MI group knew more about what was going on in Cuban operations in the Miami area than we did, so most of the information we obtained was through them.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

51

Mr. Wides. So how would he get the information about
potential targets in New York?

Mr. Sarno. Because they had the groups down in Miami
penetrated, so in Miami, these groups in Miami, would discuss
their contacts with the splinter group sitting up in New York
and the information would come about.

Mr. Wides. You never got any written instructions or
oral instructions when you were in Washington or Miami to see
if you could arrange for this person to get information on
people in New York?

Mr. Sarno. Never. Never once.

Mr. Wides. What about picketing in New York by Cuban
personnel? There's some reference to that in testimony we've
already received.

Mr. Sarno. There is one incident of the Mexico -- I think
it was against Mexico, where they went to an affair or something
and threw out leaflets.

Mr. Wides. What about picketing of an airline company or
an airline office?

Mr. Sarno. I heard that that took place, but I was not
in Miami at the time. I was away on a trip.

Mr. Wides. But your understanding was it involved ![AMUTS] personnel?

Mr. Sarno. This individual was involved in it.

Mr. Wides. And what did you understand had been the

NW 50955 DocId: 32202440 Page 43

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# TOP SECRET

1 origins of the picketing? How would it come about?

2 Mr. Sarno. Well, I don't believe it was started, I know

3 it wasn't started in *AMUTS* because one individual cannot start

4 it, but the groups, the Cuban exile groups who were located in

5 New York decided to picket it because, I believe, of Mexico's

6 relations with Cuba.

7 Mr. Wides. At this time, wasn't the Agency carrying on

8 a wide variety of operations to try and isolate Cuba economically

9 and commercially?

10 Mr. Sarno. I believe they were, yes. I was never involved

11 in any of those operations.

12 Mr. Wides. And including air traffic people, airlines

13 going to Cuba. That was one aspect of the efforts to isolate

14 Cuba.

15 Mr. Sarno. Well, the airlines going to Cuba, if I

16 can recall at that time, were not Mexican airlines.

17 Mr. Wides. You didn't have any idea at the time as to

18 what --

19 Mr. Sarno. Mexican airlines do not fly to Cuba. The

20 Cubans always flew their airplanes over. The Mexicans were

21 not flying.

22 Mr. Wides. So you understood this to be harrassment of

23 a Mexican Company or a Mexican national company, because of

24 Mexico's general relations with Cuba?

25 Mr. Sarno. General relations with Cuba, that is what I

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

TOP SECRET

53

1 understood it to be.

2 Mr. Wides. And you didn't have any information that the

3 Agency was aware of it beforehand?

4 Mr. Sarno. No, sir, I was never involved in it. I don't

5 recall ever seeing the reports or anything, because as I say,
I did an awful lot of travelling when I handled the AMUTS

6

7 Mr. Wides. When you discussed this with the people at

8 the Agency, is your testimony that you never heard any indica-

9 tion that the Agency was involved in that picketing?

10 Mr. Sarno. That is --

11 Mr. Wides. No one's ever suggested --

12 Mr. Sarno. Nobody ever suggested that the Agency was the

13 one who backed the people who did the picketing, no.

14 Mr. Wides. Now was there a time when AMUTS personnel who

15 had not moved outside of the Miami area were ever used or

16 involved in any Agency operations to your knowledge outside of
Miami, went on trips to do little jobs?

18 Mr. Sarno. AMUTS went out of Miami in order to do little

19 jobs --

20 Mr. Wides. I don't mean to Cuba.

21 Mr. Sarno. No, they went out of Miami to do little jobs

22 like for instance a specialist in say, sugar, would say come

23 out of Cuba through Spain and he'd end up in New York, and so

24 an AMUTS would go from Miami to New York to debrief him. Or we

25 would hear of somebody who knew of a well-known government


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

TOP SECRET

54

1 figure in Cuba who came out and he goes to Louisiana or he

2 goes to Chicago. Well, an AMOT would be dispatched over to his

3 house to debrief him. That is the only places I ever sent the

4 AMUTS, or the AMOTS were ever sent.

5 Mr. Wides. What about with regard to surveillances or

6 breaking or entering?

7 Mr. Sarno. Never.

8 Mr. Wides. Mr. Sturbitz, do you know him?

9 Mr. Sarno. Sturbitz?

10 Mr. Wides. He was involved in economic warfare against

11 Castro.

12 Mr. Sarno. Sturblitz or Sturbitz?

13 Mr. Wides. Sturbitz.

14 Mr. Sarno. Yes, I know Sturbitz.

15 Mr. Wides. He testified he conducted some inquiries in

16 regard to the question of AMUTS involvement in possible illegal

17 activities, breaking and entering, surveillance and so forth.

18 Were you aware of those investigations?

19 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

20 Mr. Wides. Have you ever heard any charges or allegations

21 or suggestions that AMUTS personnel were involved in breaking

22 and entering in New York against groups like the Fair Play For

23 Cuba Committee, the Vinceremos Brigade?

24 Mr. Sarno. No, sir, no, sir.

25 Mr. Wides. And you never heard anything about the use of

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

TOP SECRET

55

1 AMOTS in regard to any kind of harrassing action against those

2 groups?

3 Mr. Sarno. No, sir, never.

4 Mr. Wides. Do you know if any members of AMOTS may have

5 heen used in these kinds of activities without your express

6 direction or not as part of its CIA task?

7 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

8 Mr. Wides. You never heard anything about it?

9 Mr. Sarno. Never heard.

10 Mr. Wides. In Florida also?

11 Mr. Sarno. In Florida also.

12 Mr. Wides. What about with regard to Puerto Rico and

13 AMOTS going there. Tell us about that.

14 Mr. Sarno. Well, there were several AMOTS who left Miami

15 and went over to Puerto Rico. There is a large Cuban community

16 in Puerto Rico with the attendant Cuban exile groups, and it

17 was the same thing as was going on in New York. They would

18 collect data on what these groups were doing, operations that

19 they were preparing, funds that they were collecting, et

20. cetera.

21 Mr. Wides. Did you see those reports as they came in?

22 Mr. Sarno. Yes, they came in and San Jenis would prepare

23 them and send them into the office.

24 Mr. Wides. When did they start including reports on

25 Puerto Rican affairs?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# TOP SECRET

56

1 Mr. Sarno. Never.

2 Mr. Wides. No discussion in those reports --

3 Mr. Sarno. Never once did they write up about Puerto

4 Rican political affairs. I never once saw a report.

5 Mr. Wides. Did you ever have any discussion with San Jenis

6 or anyone involved in the Puerto Rican Cuban community about

7 Puerto Rican affairs?

8 Mr. Sarno. Never.

9 Mr. Wides. Was there a station operating at that time

10 for the Caribbean in Puerto Rico?

11 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

12 Mr. Wides. During the entire period, '61 til about '67?

13 Mr. Sarno. To my knowledge, there wasn't. There was

14 not a station.

15 Mr. Wides. Do you want to go ahead?

16 Mr. DeMarco. Just a couple.

17 You mentioned, or it was touched upon earlier, the

18 period of time you were actually in Cuba, 1961.

19 Mr. Sarno. '60 and '61.

20 Mr. DeMarco. What requirements were levied upon you when

21 you left to go to Cuba?

22 Mr. Sarno. None.

23 Mr. DeMarco. Well, you'd better explain that. I don't

24 understand that answer at all. You just went on a vacation?

25 Mr. Sarno. I was transferred from a foreign country to

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# TOP SECRET

1 Cuba because they needed me.

2 Mr. DeMarco. What foreign country were you transferred

3 from?

4 Mr. Sarno. I don't think that I should state that.

5 Mr. DeMarco. I insist that you answer that.

6 Mr. Wides. Let's go off the record.

7 (Discussion off the record.)

8 Mr. DeMarco. For the record, I think I should explain to you that we are highly interested in the sort of activities that you were involved in in Cuba in 1960 and '61, but our investigation has to a certain point been slowed down by the inability to obtain the right kinds of documents and that being the case, and your insistence here on not answering certain questions, will require us to simply have you come back once we have cleared this up with your superiors at the Agency and once they have been more forthcoming with documents that were long ago requested about your activities.

9 I don't want to pursue just suspicions with you, I'd rather talk to you about specific dates and facts.

10 We are going to pursue this very vigorously, and the reason I'm interested in it is the gambling background, and I would like to know your training in that area, your experience in that area and the reasons why you were down there.

11 Now if there is anything you want to tell me now, or do you want to come back

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

TOP SECKEI

58

Mr. Sarno. Sure, I'll tell you now. I was in a country and I don't think I have to name the country because you are interested in Cuba and you are interested in the operation that I had in Miami and I don't think you're interested in what I did before I went to Cuba. I tell you that nobody gave me any instructions when I went to Cuba. I knew the Chief of Station in Cuba and had known him for many years. He asked for me specifically to come over for my abilities or qualifications or experience. I climbed on an airplane and I went to Cuba.

I met the Chief of Station and he told me what he wanted me to do.

Mr. DeMarco. What's his name?

Mr. Sarno. Jim Noel.

Mr. DeMarco. You met Mr. Noel and he told you what he wanted you to do?

What did he tell you?

Mr. Sarno. He told me he wanted me to set up a stay-behind net in Cuba because the situation was getting very bad and he would like to set a stay-behind net up in Cuba.

Mr. Wides. This is with the break in Cuban relations?

Mr. Sarno. That's right, the pending break in diplomatic relations and the rest of the things, and he wanted to set up a net over in Cuba. And that is why he called for me.

Mr. DeMarco. Okay. So you --

Mr. Sarno. I went into Cuba and did not have a job. I had

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

TOP SECRET

59

1 no cover. I went in as a tourist, a tourist can wear thin so

2 I had to scrounge around in different ways. w had a brother-

3 in-law who was a professional gambler. When I was a kid, he

4 died. He taught me a little about gambling, so I used to go

5 to the black jack tables and I would win money here, there and

6 the other place.

7 Mr. DeMarco. Is this the hotel black jack tables

8 predominantly?

9 Mr. Sarno. No, they had black jack, roulette, they had

10 baccarat. I would go in there, I would make myself seen, they

11 would see that I was wearing good clothes and I was winning

12 money at the gambling tables and that's it.

13 I am not to be tied into any Syndicate or anything like

14 it. I didn't know a single soul.

15 Mr. DeMarco. You knew no one?

16 Mr. Sarno. Nobody.

17 Mr. DeMarco. And your task then, which you learned on

18 arriving there, was to set up a network?

19 Mr. Sarno. To set up a network of agents in Cuba, yes.

20 Mr. DeMarco. So you started meeting people to do that?

21 Mr. Sarno. No.

22 We never meet people to do that.

23 Mr. DeMarco. Describe to me how you did it.

24 Mr. Sarno. People ware spotted by other individuals and

25 they're checked out, and once they're checked out and their


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# TOP SECRET

clearance is obtained on them, they are delivered to me for me to handle and train and what have you.

Mr. DeMarco. I see.

Were any of those Americans?

Mr. Sarno. No, I never spotted any Americans. There were two Americans over there who were already working, and they were given to me to use as, to handle some of the other ones that were involved.

Mr. DeMarco. Were they also involved in the same type of cover you were, gambling?

Mr. Sarno. No. They were not in the same cover. As I say, it was a cover provided by the Agency. It was a cover I just naturally stumbled into since I was going to the different casinos and I was winning money there and I could pass myself off as a tourist-gambler.

Mr. DeMarco. These other two Americans you were talking about, can you name them?

Mr. Sarno. Well, I'll give you the name. One I would name, because I was not involved with the other one very long. One's name is Emelio Rodriquez, but he is dead now.

Mr. DeMarco. He was an American?

Mr. Sarno. Yes, he died of a heart attack. And the other was Julian.

Mr. DeMarco. Julian?

Mr. Sarno. Julian. I don't recall the last name, but he


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

TOP SECRET

61

1 only remained for about two months after I arrived.

2 Mr. DeMarco. What were these two people doing in Cuba prior to the time they were turned over to you and you met them?

4 Mr. Sarno. Collection of intelligence.

6 Mr. DeMarco. For the Agency?

7 Mr. Sarno. Yes, for the Agency. They were agents of the Agency, as was I. But they were residing in Cuba.

9 Mr. DeMarco. At any time while you were in Cuba, for that matter, at any time, did you become aware of any Agency relationships with -- I'm going to use the term generically -- organized crime. Do you understand what I mean by that?

13 Mr. Sarno. Yes, certainly.

14 Mr. DeMarco. Whether or not organized, people who you've read about in the paper, or you would consider to be involved in that kind of business, are you aware of any relationships between any Agency personnel in Cuba or elsewhere?

18 Mr. Sarno. None whatsoever.

19 Mr. DeMarco. During the period of time that you were in the casinos, playing black jack and roulette and so forth, did you get an opportunity to meet the people that were running the casinos?

22 Mr. Sarno. No.

24 There was one big Swede in the Capri that because it was close to where I was living I would go in there more often, and


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

62
as soon as I take off from my house, my apartment, I would head over there and he was always seeing me in and offer me drinks, but he was not a big wheel, he was just one of their employees.

Mr. DeMarco. Where was this?

Mr. Sarno. At the Capri.

Mr. DeMarco. You say a big Swede?

Mr. Sarno. A big Swede, a blond-haired fellow. I didn't even know his name, I'd just call him Swede.

Mr. DeMarco. Was he an American, or from Sweden?

Mr. Sarno. I think he was from America.

Mr. DeMarco. Were any of the people that you were involved in handling in Cuba commercial or airline people? Any airline people?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. DeMarco. Did any of them have official Cuban govern-ment positions?

Mr. Sarno. Yes.

Mr. DeMarco. They did?

Mr. Sarno. Some of them did, those were the ones that you were looking for.

Mr. DeMarco. I don't have anything more at this time.

Mr. Wides. I am just a little puzzled by your testimony regarding the AMPHIS activity with regard to the Cuban community.

You indicated there was a CI capability, but if I understand


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

63

it, you said the only penetration was for purposes of finding

out about exile activities being planned against Cuba.

What was your testimony with regard to the use of AMUTS

for members of the Cuban community who might come under

suspicion as possibly being intentionally or unintentionally --

Mr. Sarno. Suspect?

Mr. Wides. They were employed or they were not employed

in any way regarding checking on this?

Mr. Sarno. If you mean to say did they go around and

surveil them --

Mr. Wides. No. In any sense of counterintelligence

work, keeping their ears open and reporting back information
that might be of a suspicious nature.

Mr. Sarno. Well, to explain it, if an AMUT were to walk

into a place and see a friend and the friend says did you see

Juan, do you know Juan is here, and the AMUT himself knows and

the guy he's talking to that Juan used to work for the Internal

Security in Cuba, it's obvious. Where's he at, try to find

him.

And then they would go back to the files and dig out all

the information and in would come a report. Juan is in the

city of Miami and here's the stuff that we have on him. He

was a Castro collaborator, or he's a member of the security

forces over there, and everything.

Mr. Wides.. So in general it would be fair to say -- and

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 55

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

TOP SECKEI                                                                                                        64

1   I'm not trying to twist your testimony, I know you referred

2   to the basic purpose being to keep tabs on what was going on

3   so you would be aware of what Alpha-66 and groups like that

4   were planning, but in general, they were the eyes and ears of

5   the Station in the Cuban community and might come up with

6   counterintelligence information as well as the information

7   about the activities?

8   Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir, yes, sir.

9   Mr. Wides. And as you understand it on a smaller scale,

10  this was also true with regards to the group in New York?

11  Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.

12  Mr. Wides. It was not simply to find out about Alpha-66,

13  but they would also report to the extent that they obtained

14  CI, that is counterintelligence information, about the Cubans

15  in New York?

16  Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.

17  Mr. Wides. What about with regards to the activities at

18  the UN? Any reports regarding UN activity relative to Cuba?

19  Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

20  Mr. Wides. Was there a Cuban mission at the UN at this

21  time?

22  Mr. Sarno. Yes, sir.

23  Mr. Wides. And this group never relayed any information

24  regarding the Cuban mission or the people they contacted in

25  New York?                                                                                                           TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

TOP SECRET

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000 65

1 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

2 Mr. Wides. Why wouldn't they have been used for that

3 purpose?

4 Mr. Sarno. Because that is the Bureau's domain. We never

5 checked up on Cubans, the diplomats who were in the UN, nobody

6 was ever in contact with them, they never reported on any

7 Cuban diplomats in the UN or any of the Cubans seeing them or

8 anything.

9 Mr. Wides. Did you ever hear any stories whether they

10 were associated with AMUTS or not of Cuban exiles being

11 involved in any harrassment or surveillance of groups in

12 America friendly toward the Castro regime, such as the

13 Vinceremos Brigade and the Fair Play For Cuba Committee?

14 Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

15 Mr. Wides. You were not aware of any activity by exiles?

16 I'm not talking about necessarily AMUTS

17 Mr. Sarno. Not of any activities.

18 Mr. Wides. You never heard anything?

19 Mr. Sarno. I never heard anything.

20 You're smiling. I'm telling you, I never heard anything.

21 Mr. Wides. What about Cubans in the late '60's after the

22 Vietnam War arose, being involved, Cuban exiles, in any

23 harrassment or surveillance of peace groups? What do you know

24 about that?

25 Mr. Sarno. Nothing.

NW 50955 DocId: 32202440 Page 57 TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# TOP SECRET

66

Mr. Wides. Do you know anything about Cubans coming up from Miami to be involved in surveillance or disruption of any peace demonstrations in Washington?

Mr. Sarno. No, sir.

Mr. Wides. You never heard of that?

Mr. Sarno. I never heard of it. I know no AMUTS and I never heard of any other Cubans.

Mr. Wides. Is there anything else that you -- have you gotten a clear understanding of our lines of interest?

Mr. Sarno. Yes, I have.

Mr. Wides. -- would like to tell us, or any information --

Mr. Sarno. I have no information. I ran a group there and we were never involved in anything which I would consider to be illegal. They were working against the government of Cuba.

Mr. Wides. I understand that.

Mr. Sarno. And that is where all of their energy went.

Mr. Wides. Who was it who would ask you to have members of AMUTS detailed for missions elsewhere in America?

You described one where they would go to another city to debrief somebody.

Mr. Sarno. I would --

Mr. Wides. How would you get those instructions? From the Branch Chief?

Mr. Sarno. No, I wouldn't get the instructions. Since it

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

TOP SECRET

67

was a group and we were collecting economic and political

intel --

Mr. Wides. Where would you get the information that there

was a target of opportunity or someone to be debriefed in
another city?

Mr. Sarno. If the AMUT were to come up with the informa-
tion, if the AMUT were to come up with the information, he
would come in and report it and I would authorize him to go
into that city and find him, because the information could
come in many ways.

See, they were known as the Cuban municipalities and
operations in the city of Miami, and everybody that came out
from like a province or a state would register in it, and
as soon as they got information, the word would get around that

Joe Blow came in or something like that, and the word would get
back to the AMUTS and the AMUTS would say, well, we should
discuss with this fellow, and that's it.

Mr. Wides. You never got any requests for AMUTS personnel
to be made available for that kind of task from Washington?

Mr. Sarno. To debrief an individual?

Mr. Wides. Or to travel in general.

Mr. Sarno. Yes, yes, they would come down and say, we
would like a person because Washington would hear of an
individual and would like for him to go over and debrief.

Mr. Wides. What office?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Sarno. It would come out of the Cuban branch.

2 Mr. Wides. Cuban. Operations Task?

3 Who would come down? Just a member of the staff?

4 Mr. Sarno. Come down? They usually came in a cable.

5 It said, you know, we understand such and such a person is living at such and such an address and they worked at such and such, suggest send an AMOL out to debrief.

6

7

8 Mr. Wides. Did you have a particular point of contact or several people who were particular points of contact for you that would tend to be the ones sending you cables?

9

10

11 Mr. Sarno. No, I wasn't the Station Chief. The cables come into the station, the Station Chief would pass it to me or to the Branch Chief, and that would be it.

12

13

14 Mr. Wides. Okay.

15 I think that's all the questions we have, and I want to thank you for your patience, it's been a long morning.

16

17 (Whereupon, at 12:42 o'clock p.m., the hearing recessed.)

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

NW 50955 DocId:32202440 Page 60

TOP SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)