# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10005-10254

RECORDS SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM: KELLEY, BOB

TO: THE FILE

TITLE :

MEMORANDUM

DATE: 05/30/75

PAGES: 10

SUBJECTS :

INTERVIEW WITH STEPHENS, JOHN HENRY-CIA COVERT ACTION OPS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/05/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

BOX 259-6

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Interview with John H. Stephens Page Three

exact month) he was ordered to go to Guatamela to train the Cuban airborne brigade that eventually was parachuted into Cuba six hours in advance of the landing at the Bay of Pigs. This training was conducted at a site in the Guatamelan jungle called *De Finca or the Farm* A nearby village was *Retalalao* (phonetic spelling).

During the time this training was conducted, i.e. from 1959 to the Bay of Pigs invasion, Mr. Stephens recalls there were two occasions when he and/or members of his 4-5 man training cadre were told to give parachutes and weapons to individuals who were to be parachuted into Cuba to attempt to assassinate Castro. Mr. Stephens stated that he did not precisely recall whether he was expressly told these individuals were going to Cuba to try to kill Castro, but he said he was clear that from either the instructions he received or the nature and details of the particular situation that this was the mission.

I asked Mr. Stephens to describe what he would do after being told to outfit the individuals who were to be dropped into Cuba for these assassination efforts. He stated that he or members of his cadre (he declined to specify whether he personally outfitted these individuals or whether it was done by his co-workers) would provide parachutes and whatever weapons the individuals desired. He referred to an "assassination package." Such a "package" would contain a variety of weapons, grenades, and other armaments, including a special "assassination gun." This gun, Mr. Stephens said, was a 9 mm.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)