157-10014-10047 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination Syston
Idennlication Fora

Date: 4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER: 157-10014-10047
RECORD SERIES: HEARINGS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-H-05

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 05/06/1976-
PAGES: 80
SUBJECTS:

CASTRO, FIDEL
OPERATION MONGOOSE
JMWAVE
CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LASTREVIEW: 02/26/1998
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Box 2

NW#:55510 DocId: 32423435


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TOP SECRET

The United States Senate R3014

Report of Proceedings

Hearing held before

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

Thursday, May 6, 1976

Washington, D.C.

(Stenotype Tape and Waste turned over to the Committee for destruction)

WARD & PAUL
3007 WILSON BOULEVARD
ARLINGTON, VA 22301
(703) 841-0800

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

TOP SECRET

CONTENTS

TESTIMONY OF:

Robert G. Halley

--accompanied by--

John Rigall and

Seymour R. Bolten

PAGE

3

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# TOP SECRET

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Thursday, May 6, 1976

United States Senate,

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with Respect to

Intelligence Activities,

Washington, D. C.

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:40 o'clock

p.m., in Room 608, the Carroll Arms Hotel, the Honorable

Richard S. Schweiker presiding.

Present: Senator Schweiker (presiding).

Also present: Jim Johnston and Paul Wallach, Professional

Staff Members.

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

## TOP SECRET

PROCEEDING

3 Senator Schweiker. I guess we will swear you in, so if
4 you will stand up and raise your right hand, do you solemnly
5 swear the testimony you are about to give is the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
6 Mr. Halley. Yes, I do
7 Senator Schweiker. Be seated.
8 Mr. Johnston. Would you state for the record your full
9 name?
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

TOP SECRET

![image] NWW.55510 Docid-32423435


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# TOP SECRET

TESTIMONY OF ROBERT G. HALLEY
ACCOMPANIED BY JOIN RIGALL AND SETMOUR R. BOLTEN

Mr. Halley. My name is Robert G. Halley.

Mr. Johnston. And I understand that is an alias and your true identity will be preserved by the Agency.

Mr. Halley. That is correct.

Mr. Johnston. Mr. Bolten, would you state your full name?

Mr. Bolten. Seydour Boiten, Seymour R. Bolten.

Mr. Johnston. And John, the alias you are testifying under?

Mr. Riyall. John Rigall, R-i-g-a-1-1.

Mr. Johnston. And Mr. Bolten and Mr. Rigal, would you state your capacity in this session today?

Mr. Boiten. I am chief of the Review Staff of the CIA, and responsible for dealings with the Senate Select Committee.

Mr. Rigall. I am Special Assistant to the DDO, sitting in here as an alternate monitor.

Mr. Johnston. And the discussion that has taken place prior to going on the record today basically has resulted is a decision to have Mr. Bolten and Kr. Rigail attend as monitor to this session, and do you understand that, Mr. Halley?

Mr. Halley. Yes, I do

Mr. Johnston. Mr. Halley, what was your capacity with Agency in November, 19639

Mr. Halley. In November, 1963, 1 was the Chief of Sta

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

TOP SECRET

of the CIA operation that was based in Miami, Florida, targeted

as its primarily responsibility for the Cuban operation.

Mr. Johnston. Mr. Wallach has reminded me to remind you of
a procedural matter which, you understand you have the right
to counsel.

Mr Halley. Yes, I do.

Mr. Johnston. And you understand you have a right not to
answer questions if you don't wish to, or not to answer questions
until you consult with Counsel, is that correct?

Mr. Halley. That is correct.

Mr. Johnston. And you are appearing here voluntarily
without counsel.

Mr. Halley. That is corrent.

Mr. Johnston. And going back to substantive questions..

long đìd you remain as: Chief of Station?

What were the dates of your service?

Mr. Halley. Well, I arrived, or became involved in the
Cuban operations in the early 1962, and I stayed there un
approximately June of 1965.

Senator Schweiker. What month again in '62?

Mr. Halley. Early '62. I diản't give you the montti,
Senator, because I originally came down to Florida to conduct
a sorvay of this operation to see what possibilities could
carried out in terms of the collection of intelligence. I
later filed a report on it, and I was later assigned down tr

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

TOP SECRET

Senator Schweiker. And this was called JMWAVE, was it?

Mr. Halley. That is the cryptonym that the Agency used for the Miami station.

Senator Schweiker. And to whom in that chain of command at the CIA did you report when you were the operating head?

Mr. Halley. There were different people at different times. When I first went to Miami, the task force commander was Mr. William Harvey. He reported then to the DDP, who reported to the Director of Central Intelligence. At a later point in the operation, Mr. Harvey moved on to other tasks, and Mr. Fitzgerald became the chief of that particular unit, and then after Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. Hart was the head of that particular unit.

And between Harvey and Fitzgerald, I think there was a short period of time when a fellow by the name of Bruce Cheeves was the acting chief of that particular unit, or the chief. I have forgotten the exact arrangement there.

Senator Schweiker. Sometime during this period did it change its title from Task Force W to SAS, is that correct or not correct, or do I have it mixed up?

Mr. Halley. My recollection of that chronology was that it was first called SAS and then became Task Force W, and then became integrated back into WH Division, which was the Western Hemisphere Division.

Senator Schweiker. SAS preceded Task Force W?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

TOP SECRET

Mr. Halley. Yes. That's off the top of my head. That's my recollection of it.

Mr. Johnston. Just for the record, I think it was the other way around. Task Force was first and SAS was second.

Senator Schweiker. But in sum and substance your duties were basically the same, whether it was Task Force W or SAS under Harvey and Fitzgerald, was that not true?

Mr. Halley. Well, I think you have to break this period up into two phases, Senator. The early phase, 1962, was focused on coming up with an appraisal of what kind of an operation could be run against Cuba in the context which existed at that time, in other words, after the Bay of Pigs, after the post mortems had been conducted. The Administration at the time decided that they wanted to take another look at Cuba as an intelligence and national security problem. Therefore, an assessment was to be made in the early period of time as to what kind of an operation could be run in pursuit of U.S. policy objectives, which was to see if Fidel Castro's government could be removed. And when that assessment was conducted as to what kind of intelligence operations could be conducted, what kind of paramilitary or other operations could be run, that was an initial phase, and that phase was approved and put into effect, but as that operation was being put into effect the missile crisis came upon us, so that that was not really carried to its logical conclusion because the operation

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

TOP SECRET

then shifted.

Senator Schweiker. After October of '62

Mr. Halley. No, prior to October of '62, because the Cuban crisis was in October of '62, but the buildup preceded it, and our operations which were collecting Intelligence in Cuba detected this buildup as it was unfolding. Therefore, the national priority became now how do you take action against Fidel Castro, but what is the nature of this Soviet buildup. And therefore the operation changed.

Then after the Cuban missile crisis of October of 1962, the problem became one of monitoring the Soviet disengagement from Cuba, and then there was another phase after that when the Soviets were out, Castro was clearly recognized as the established power in Cuba, and the problem became one of looking at Cuba in the context of was there some other way to get a political change in Cuba other than by military action or by paramilitary action. In other words, the emphasis shifted to looking at the Castro military establishment to see if a coup could be pulled from within, to see if economic pressures could be put on the Castro regime.

So the tasking of this particular unit did change, and change of nuances and degrees during this period, but in our professional sense it was focused on the Cuban targets. So in that sense you are correct, but it did go through various changes as events changed.

TOP SECRET

![NWB 55510 DocId: 32423435]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

TOP SECRET

Senator Schweiker. What was the relationship of your station and your assignment to General Lansdale? What role did he play?

Mr. Halley. Well, in the early days, in the early period of 1962, General Lanadale was a member of a group that was looking at the basic problem of what could be done against the Cuban activity. This came up in one of my previous conversatio with Mr. Baron.

Senator Schweiker. Are you talking about something we call Operation MONGOOSE, are we talking about Special Group Augmented, or what are we talking about?

Mr. Halley. Well, when I first came into this activity In 1962, the principal peopleuthat seemed to be involved wit it at that time were Robert Kennedy, General Lansdale, Dick Helms, and William Harvey, and the group of Kennedy, Lansdale and llelms were providing, if you will, the guidance and the direction as to where this thing should go in the early days.

Shortly after the operation was established and I was in Miami, Länsdale seems to have faded out of this particul picture, and I was not involved in the Washington nuances et this, so I am not clear as to exactly what was the reason for his departure from this particular scene.

Senator Schweiker. And was that do you remember the скурсосут, Operation MONGOOSE?

Ar. Halley. I've heard the cryptonym Operation MONGOOSE

TOP SECRET

![photo of the bottom of the page with a white object in the middle]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

but that didn't impact on my life at that particular time.

Senator Schwelker. All right.

Mr. Johnston. Moving to the time of the Kennedy assassination, were you Chief of Station and in Miami when the President was assassinated?

Mr. Halley. Yes, I was the Chief of Station and I was in Miami.

Mr. Johnston. You were physically in Miami on November 22nd.

Mr. Halley. Yes, I was.

Mr. Johnston. Did you receive any orders through CIA channels to conduct an investigation in any fashion into the assassination of the President?

Mr.Halley. Well, my recollection of that was that we had requested for name traces at the time that Oswald was arrested, and that was our contribution to the investigation.

Mr. Johnston. Did you receive any order in the form of a cable or any other fashion to conduct an Investigation

Mr. Halley. I don't recall receiving one, but if you showed me a cable, I would have to comment on it. In other words this was in 1963. This is 1976, and as you know from record. I've been in an awful lot of high volume projects since that time, and I don't think it is likely that I would retain a specific cable, you know, on a particular day. I mean, I have been in Berlin, Laos, Vietnam. My life has been active.

> [Figure] The text "TOP SECRET" is printed at the end of the page. There is also a faded rectangular image printed at the bottom of the page.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

TOP SECRET

1 therefore I do not recall a specific cable. If you've got a
2 cable, I'd be glad to comment on it.

3 Mr. Johnston. Well, I don't have one, and I'm asking you
4 whether one would exist.
5 Mr. Halley. I don't recall one.
6 Mr. Johnston. And your judgment would be that there was
7 not a cable ordering an investigation.

8 Mr. Halley. I can't say that. I can only say that I
9 don't recall one, but I do recall that at a later point, once
10 Oswald was detained by the police and there was some investi-
11 gative material emanating from that, we participated in
12 name trace activity of whatever was sent to us at that time
13 from Washington, because I do recall that at the time that
14 the name traces were conducted, that one of the Cuban groups
15 that we were in touch with at DRE, they did come up with a
16 tape of a debate which had taken place between Oswald and some
17 member of the DRE in New Orleans, and you know, that sort of
18 sticks in my mind as an event of that particular time. And we
19 commented on it, and as I recall, forwarded the tapes to
20 Washington.

21 Senator Schweiker. That was Bringuier's group, was it
22 not?
23 Mr. Halley. That was the DRE, the Direccion Revolucionaria
24 Senators Schweiker. Wasn't Carlos Bringuier -- maybe
25 I'm pronouncing it wrong, involved in that, and wasn't he

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

TOP SECRET

1.  associated with you folks at that time?

2.  Mr. Halley. Well, I don't recall that specific name, Senator, at this time.

3.  We did have a relationship with the DRE. We did deal with a number of their top leaders.

4.  Mr. Johnston. Let me come back to that later.

5.  Did you receive any orders not to investigate an area or not to conduct an investigation of any kind?

6.  Mr. Halley. No, I don't recall receiving any such orders.

7.  Mr. Johnston. At this time period, November 22nd, November 23rd, 1963, what was your capability in regard to conducting an investigation among Cuban exiles, and with Cuban sources?

8.  Mr. Halley. Well, in relationship to Cubans living in the United States, I would say that our capability was quite good.

9.  Now, if you are referring to our capability to conduct an investigation in Cuba, I would have to say it was limited.

10. I have to know where specifically you are referring to. In other words, if you're talking in the area --

11. Mr. Johnston. Please I'm talking domestically of Cuban exiles in the United States, and your answer is --

12. Mr. Halley. That it would have been quite good.

13. Mr. Johnston. Secondly, with regard to collecting intelligence as to possible Cuban involvement -

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Halley. From Cuba or in Cuba?

2 Mr. Johnston. Any other source.

3 Mr. Halley. Well, if you're talking about collecting

4 information in Cuba --

5 Mr. Johnston.. I see.

6 Mr. Halley. It would then have to be focused specifically

7 on different geographic areas. In other words, as an

8 example, if you told me I want some information on a specific

9 town in the province of Pinar del Rio, that probably was

10 within our capability at that time because we had a rather

11 extensive network in Pinar del Rio. If you had said to me,

12 you know, in that same timeframe on this day, I want you to

13 conduct a kind of an investigation in the province of Camaguey.

14 I probably would have had to say, you know, we're not as well

15 equipped, because our coverage varied from province to province.

16 Mr. Johnston. Did you have sources -- and I mean specifically

17 JMWAVE station, did JMWAVE station control sources in Cuban

18 intelligence?

19 Mr. Halley, I don't recall that we had any staff office

20 in the Cuban intelligence service under our control. We may

21 have been involved in some double agent operations at that time,

22 but certainly we did not have a staff officer penetration of

23 the Cuban services.

24 Mr. Johnston. Did you ever receive any orders to contact

25 whatever your contacts were in the Cuban intelligence, to

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

TOP SECRET

1 inquire about the assassination of President Kennedy?

2 Mr. Halley. I don't recall receiving any auch instruction.

3 Mr. Johnston. Did that ever about to you on your own?

4 Mr. Halley. Well, I think as you probably see from some

5 of the traffic, we did come up on our own with samplings of

6 opinion, what was happening in the Cuban community. We were

7 reporting what was coming out of Cuba in terms of information

8 brought by, you know, refugees, material that was being made

9 available through people corresponding and so forth, yes, we

10 were sensitive to that particular problem.

11 Mr. Johnston. But did you affirmatively go out and

12 seek the informacion from sources in Cuba?

13 Mr. Halley. well, to the extent that this was availabio

14 to us, you know, we had lots of agents. If you're asking me

15 did we send an Sw massage and task a specific agent to

16 conduct an investigation, vor did we send them a radio message

17 or senathing like that, I don't recall one.

18 Mr. Johnston. Why didn't you do that?

19 Mr. Halley. My recollection of this is that we felt

20 that the nature of our capability was to simply respond to

21 Witat we were able to obtain in the Miami area, and from bu

22 sources in a passive way, because this was an investigation

23 that was being conducted in the United States with the primar

24 responsibility with agencies other than CIA,

25 Mr. Johnston. I guess I don't quite understand the we

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

TOP SECRET

because the CIA did have responsibility and certainly the capability to collect information from foreign countries.

Mr. Halley. Well, we had no reason at the particular time to feel that there was any kind of a case, hard information, that the Cubans were behind the assassination.

In other words, you know, at that particular period in time there were a large number of rumors, gossip, in the Cuban Community. Those that came to our attention were raported, and we tried to put them in some perspective, that is, who was the individual, what access did he have to this data and so forth.

But we had no persuasion that this was being mounted by the Cubans at that particular time.

Mr. Wallach. I would like to ask a couple of questions by way of background and let Jim yo right back to his line of questioning.

Taking the period as exemplary, October of 1963 --

Mr. Halley. October of '63, okay.

Mr. Wallach. Which I take it would be fairly indicative of what was going on in May, June, July and August of the same year, I want to pick a fairly standard month for that period.

Mr. Halley. Uh-huh.

Mr. Wallach. Before the assassination.

It's my understanding that in addition to getting posic

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

TOP SECRET

1 Intelligence from refugees, etc., coming to this country,
2 that your station did operate agents and did have sources,
3 whatever terms you want to use, inside Cuba, is that correct?
4 Mr. Halley. Yes, we did have sources inside Cuba.
5 Mr. Wallach. Gould you briefly for the record --
6 (Pause)
7 Mr. Wallach. What I'd like to do very briefly for the
8 record, as you know, I think you had an interview with Mr.
9 Baron and went into it with you, but very briefly describe
10 generally the type of operations that your station was conductiby
11 vis-a-vis Cuba.
12 Mr. Halley. Well, in the first instance, we were engaged
13 in foreign intelligence collection activities, that is, tro
14 to establish information which related to the plans, intenci
15 and capabilities of the Cuban government. We were also
16 involved in counterintelligence operations, that is, tryin
17 to figure out what the Cubans were doing in terms of their
18 Intelligence operations in the United States, or through th
19 United States into Central and Latin America. We were a
20 involved in propaganda operations against Cuba, and covert
21 action in the sense of trying to establish contact wi
22 dissident military personalities in Cuba.
23 Mr. Wallach. Without naming names, did you in the ri
24 period I've been talking about, October of 1963, have ett
25 sources or agents fairly highly placed within the Cuban

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

TOP SECRET

1 government?

2 Mr. Halley. I don't think -- there I'd have to get a
3 better definition from you of what is highly placed. If you
4 are talking about Fidel Castro and his immediate encourage --
5 Mr. Wallach. People who could possibly have been in
6 meetings or dinner with Castro, or meetings with Castro. 1
7 don't know enough about how Castro operated.

8 Mr. Halley. I would say if you are talking about somebody
9 who was a member of his immediate entourage and who was dealing
10 with him in a governmental sense, then the answer is no, but
11 we did have people who were on the periphery of this. That
12 is, they wouldn't have been major participants, but they
13 would have been in social contact with Castro or members of
14 his entourage.

15 Mr. Wallach. How about persons within the DGI, whatever
16 the correct name for Cuban intelligence is.

17 Mr. Halley. Well, again as I mentioned earlier, we had
18 no staff officer penetration of the Cuban intelligence service.
19 We had some reporting on people who were in touch with
20 various leaders in the Cuban intelligence, and it was all the
21 social or family or other context that these people were
22 reporting on.

23 Mr. Wallach. Do you recall at any time in 1962 or 1963
24 the fact being brought to your attention that certain Cuban
25 agents out of New York City were actually beginning to run

TOP SECRET

NW#:55510 DocId:32423435


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

TOP SECRET

1 assassination plots against Cuban exile leaders down in

2 Miami?

3 Mr. Halley. Out of New York? No, I don't recall that.

4 One thing, just before we leave this, so we don't have an

5 incomplete record, you asked me the other kinds of operations

6 that we were running. We were running a full scope of para-

7 military operations against Cuba. That is, we were putting

8 people back into Cuba who may have come from a particular

9 province, and who then went into the bush and lived in the

10 bush, and we kept them supplied with food, arms, basic

11 equipment. We did have radio contact with them. We were

12 involved in raids against the Cuban coast, we were involved
putting caches into the Cuban coast.

13 Senator Schweiker. Does that finish your point?

14 Mr. Halley. Yes, sir, that's roughly it.

15 Senator Schweiker. Following up this other question,

16 was any one part of your job plugging intelligence leaks at

17 this given time?

18 Was there any concern during your timeframe that you were

19 involved in Cuban operations of Intelligence Leaks from our

20 country to theirs through the Cuban Intelligence system?

21 Was this ever a consideration or priority of you as

22 Station Chief?

23 Mr. Halley. Yes, in terms of -- well, yes, the answer

24 to that is yes. Now, let me elaborate on it.

25

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# TOP SECRET

1 We had a jurisdictional problem. For instance, a Cuban
2 agent detected in the United States or being suspected of being
3 a Cuban agent would have been a case that we would have had
4 to have coordinated with the FBI, and essentially the FBI took
5 primary action on this.
6 I recall one case where we detected a Cuban agent in the
7 United States, and the case was transferred to the Bureau and
8 it involved a fundamental jurisdictional issue, which was
9 clearly the Bureau's right to take that particular case over.
10 So in that sense, the primary responsibility in the Miami
11 area in the counterintelligence sense that you are discussing,
12 Senator, would have rested with the Bureau.
13 Senator Schweiker. Did you ever attempt to find a leak
14 by placing one of our agents into the system to plug a leak?
15 I mean, was it ever that magnitude of concern attached?
16 Mr. Halley. No, I don't recall that kind of a case. In
17 other words, I do recall cases where people came out of Cuba,
18 gave us a story that we did not necessarily believe, where
19 we would turn them back and send them back to Cuba, so that
20 over a longer period of time we could determine what it is that
21 they were really after, what they were trying to do. In other
22 words, were they trying to come into the United States to
23 penetrate and immigrate, were they trying to get in touch with
24 American intelligence, and if so, why. But it was all done
25 back into the Cuban context.

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# TOP SECRET

1 Senator Schweiker. This is a tough question to answer,
2 but at that period of time, how successful in your opinion was
3 the Cuban intelligence system in doing some of that penetrating,
4 and I realize that we had a lot of Cuban exiles here, and it is
5 pretty hard to tell the players from the scorecard we are in.
6 It is a tough relevant question, but I wonder how you would
7 analyze it.
8 Mr. Halley. Well, I think it would be fair to say that
9 given the Cuban propensity to talk - in other words, you have
10 to start off with a fundamental point of departure that if you
11 get two Cubans that have got a secret, it is not going to be
12 a secret, because they do talk, and therefore they all constantly
13 talk.
14 Our biggest problem in maintaining security of our own
15 operations, such as an infiltration operation into Cuba to
16 put in a cache or run a commando raid or put a person back
17 in was to maintain security. The only way we could do it would
18 be to take all participants of that operation and take them
19 out of the Cuban community and in fact isolate them for a week
20 of ten days or more prior to the mounting of the operation so
21 that they wouldn't talk, and we could know where they would
22 be constantly, 24 hours a day. And within that milieu, I think
23 it is safe to say that the Cuban intelligence service did have
24 some agents and could be expected to have a general feel for
25 the pulse of the community at that time.

# TOP SECRET

![image of a microphone]

NNN: 55510 DocId: 32423455


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

TOP SECRET

Senator Schweiker. During that same time frame, or during the time frame that you were Station Chief, what are some other Cuban groups that you worked with that come to mind? I have mentioned DRE. I realize there were several different ones?

Any others particularly that were helpful and worked with you like the DRE?

Mr. Halley. Well, the DRE was the main group because what had happened is after the -- or prior to the Bay of Pigs there was a great collaboration between CIA and a number of these groups. After the Bay of Pigs, the dialogue with these groups sort of dried up, and during my tenure, the main group that we worked with in that sense as an organizational entity was the DRE because they had a lot of active, imaginative young student leaders who had contacts throughout the Western Hemisphere who were equally interested in using them in the propaganda and covert action sense in Central and Latin America as we were actually using them against Cuba itself.

Senator Schweiker. Where did Alpha 66 fit or not fit into that?

Mr. Halley. We did not have an organizational relationship with Alpha 66. Alpha 66 was in being. We monitored their activities so that we would know when they were going to in raids against Cuba. We may have had people who at one time or another were in our paramilitary teams who left us for

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

TOP SECRET

one reason of another and may have ended up in Alpha 66.

Senator Schweiker. We realize that one of the other
intelligence agencies might have had a liaison or working
operation with Alpha 66, not the CIA, is that correct?

Mr. Halley. Yes, I think -- you know, in the back of
my memory I believe that one of the military services --

Senator Schweiker. Might it have been the Army
Intelligence?

Mr. Halley. My recollection, it was probably a military
service, and it probably was the Army, but I would have to
check the record.

Senator Schweiker. We also were informed, and I just
wondered if this was your recollection, that at some point
some of the operations got a little bit overlapping and
duplicating, and that the boats would -- I'm simplifying it
of course, but that the boats weren't coordinated too well,
and at one point it got to be a problem with whoever else
was involved, and that finally an agreement was worked out
with Army intelligence that all the boats would be supplied
by CIA instead of having them sort of fly-by-nighting and
possibly mess up some things because of duplication or conflict.
Do you recall any of that at all?

Mr. Halley. Well, I think there were periods when the
U.S. Government was putting a clamp-down on refugee groups
going out, and the whole apparatus of government, Coast Guard.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

TOP SECRET

Customs, Inmigration and Naturalization, FBI, CIA, were working
together to try to keep these operations from going to Cuba.

In that context, the military did have some problems, but
my recollection of that. Senator, is that we put them into the
coordination mechanism that we had for getting boats our. I
don't recall our taking their people --

Senator Schweiker. I might have stated it wrong.

What do you mean by a coordination mechanism?

Mr. Halley. Well, for instando, we had, let's say, for
the month of October 1963, we would draw up an operational
plan in September. In the course of that operational plan ami
geared to the đạnk of the moon, we would have a number of..

Infiltration missions scheduled to put in coches. We'd havs
ammaber of missions scheduled to put in toans or to take
people out of Cuba. We'd have a number of missions
scheduled to conduce comando raids against fixed installatioبلي

So we would draw up the schedule and coordinato tho
schedule with the appropriate agencies like Coast Guard or
Customs so that we could nove our boats is and out and not
cause the U.S. Covetriment to expand manhours and money i
pursuing our boats.

Senator: Seneiker. think that is what I had in m

Hr. Halley, And therefore, on this schedule, when we
worked this out, we therefore would tack on th
operations and work this out so that there was a central

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

TOP SECRET

1 clearinghouse, and the U. S. government had a grip on what it
2 was doing in this clandestine field.

3 Senator Schweiker. To your recollection, besides Army
4 intelligence, were there any other intelligence services that
5 were involved to any extent with that general picture?

6 Mr. Halley. Well, with the mutation of that, as I recall.
7 the Navy had some activities in and out of Guantanamo, and there
8 were some discussions at various times on how their pepple
9 In Guantanamo could be supported, and the people were going
10 in and out of Guantanamo.

11 Senator Schweiker. Were the Armmy operations very extensiv
12 or not compared to yours?

13 Mr. Halley. No. Compared to ours, they were infinit

14 Senator Schwelker. And Navy?

15 Mr. Balley. Navy, as I think all of this was limited to
16 the perimeter all around Guantanamo, and Guantanamo.

17 Senator Schweiker. All right.

18 Mr. Wallach. I just want to ask you a couple of wore
19 questions as. I was going to before.

20 I realize this question is going to your expertise, and
21 if you have any trouble with definitional terms, let's get
22 chom straight.

23 Mr. Halley. Right.

24 Mes Wallach. DIU JHWAVE itself as an entity have ene
25 capability to conduct an investigation to determine whether ci

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

TOP SECRET

1 not there had been Cuban involvement in the assassination of
2 President Kennedy in 1963?
3 Mr. Halley. I don't think there would have been a real
4 world capability. I mean, if you're talking in my terms of
5 conducing an investigation of this type in Cuba, which would
6 have been professionally sound, that people could have put
7 confidence in. I think the answer to that is probably no. I'm
8 giving you an opinion on. That is my opinion.
9 Mr. Wallach. Let's go back to terms, then. I'm not talking
10 about an investigation where you could obviously have the
11 freedom to go up and interview anyone you wanted to interview.
12 Mr. Halley. No. We are talking about through clandestine
13 resources. In other words, to conduct this kind of investigation,
14 you know, in my view, you would have had to have had
15 a penetration of one or more of the Cuban intelligence service
16 once serving. The penetration would have had to have been in the 26th of July
17 Movement, and had enough rapport with the top leadership that
18 it could have moved freely in and out of a specific circle.
19 would probably had to have been at the level of a Commandant.
20 We did not have that kind of resource in depth to conduct
21 that kind of investigation.
22 Mr. Wallach. Were there ever any discussions at that, at that
23 that you remember between yourself, Fitzgerald, Helms,
24 anyone, as to whether or not the CIA did have the capability
25 to conduct such an investigation?

TOP SECRET

NW#55510 DocId:32425455


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

TOP SECRET

Mr. Halley. I don't recall such a discussion, but again, the reason for it was, it was essentially felt at that time, as name traces were done, the whole mood and the whole atmosphere was that this was a case that was being investigated by the FBL. It was their jurisdictional problem.

Mr. Wallach. Did the FBI, to your knowledge, have the capacity to investigate or to conduct any sort of investigation inside Cuba?

Mr. Halley. Inside Cuba? No, I don't think they did.

Mr. Wallach. Did you have direct contact with anyone from the Bureau on a continuing basis from the FBI?

Mr. Johnston. Let's restructure that whole area.

What was the liaison relationship between JMWAVE, the Bureau and Florida?

Mr. Halley. There was a direct liaison on a daily working basis, if this was required, between JMWAVE and the Miami Field Office, I think it was called, as a separate field office.

Mr. Johnston. At what level was this liaison conducted directly with you?

Mr. Halley. No. This was conducted at at least three levels that I can recall: periodically the Chief of the Field office and I would meet to review problems, if we had any particular problems, or frankly, just to get together just to make sure that we did not have any problems. There was

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

TOP SECRET

1 direct liaison on a working level between the people in the
2 Counterintelligence shop of the Station and what I think the
3 Bureau used to call the Tamale Squad, which were former
4 Bureau agents who had been down in Havana, who had left when
5 Fidel came into power, and were still working in Miami. And the
6 third liaison was essentially with people who were working
7 specific cases, where the name trace mechanism between ourselves
8 and the Bureau would show some mutuality of interest in a
9 particular case.

10 For instance, as an example, the Bureau might call up and
11 say, look, what do you know about Juan Jose Gonzalez of the
12 Second Front of the Escambrai. We'll say, okay, we'll take
13 the question, we'll do a trace, prepare the answer, and somebody
14 would go down and talk to them. So it was close. I would
15 say it was close.

16 Mr. Johnston. Did you ever do the reverse? Did you ever
17 ask the Bureau for information?

18 Mr. Halley. Yes. We traced specific people with the
19 Bureau.

20 Mr. Johnston. In November, after the assassination of
21 President Kennedy, did you personally meet with anybody from
22 the FBI regarding the investigation?

23 Mr. Halley. I don't recall meeting on that specific
24 subject.

25 Mr. Johnston. Do you know whether anyone in INWAVE met

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# TOP SECRET

with the FBI in regard to the FBI investigation in Florida?

Mr. Halley. My recollection is that this name traco procedure was working, whatever they were working in relationsh to their investigation, was being run through us. In other words, how many traces, who was being traced, I coulda't answer that.

Mr. Johnston. Well, name traces are one thing. I guess I am talking one step above that. Did anyone in JMWAVE to your knowledge discuss with anyone in FBI in Florida the CIA's capability to assist the FEI investigation?

Mr. Halley. I have no way of answering that. I don't recall that, I don't recall that kind of thing. You know, this is you know, we're talking about 1963. This is 13 years ago, and I keep telling you, you know, I've had a busy active life.

Senator Schweiker. You are doing so far very well..

Mr. Halley. I feel you are pressing ma on something th io: almost unreasonable, I bean, I don't recall tach anë every conversation. I mean, I had a 300 man station..

Mr. Johnston. I agree with you on that, but you are describing have traces, which you to seem to recall, but i saying was there anything beyond naso traces that you reci

Mas there any assistance given beyond nazo braces?

Senator seawelker, was there any higher level invest that you can repali?

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

TOP SECRET

Mr. Halley. The reason this name trace thing sticks in my mind, frankly, is because of the name traces that were conducted on Oswald when we got the hit, and I recall, the hit was made on the fact that there was the discussion and debate between Oswald and the DRE fellow, and we were tracing a lot of names at that time, and in conjunction with this particular event, once people were arrested and detained and there was some reason to expect that there was what I called an investigative follow-up, you know, you've got to start from some fact. What was the fact? You had a name, an address, a telephone number, that kind of tracing was going on. That is what impacts on me, what is this, you know, 13 years later.

Senator Schweiker. In connection with that, the group, the DRE group, there was some allegation that Oswald, I guess part of it is reality for sure, that he tried to penetrate the group himself by coming in when he was in New Orleans and infiltrate it on his own, which I guess is known, and what is in doubt, there was an allegation that while he was doing that, that he possibly talked of assassinating Kennedy or had paid money to assassinate Kennedy.

Does any of that conversation strike any bells or recollection with regard to DRE?

Mr. Halley. No. It doesn't, Senator, and I think I've got to explain this to you as to what was the nature of our relationship with the DRE. In other words, we had a

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

TOP SECRET

1 relationship with the DRE where we gave them a monthly
2 subsidy. In other words, this would make them in our category
3 like independent contractors. In return for this particular
4 subsidy, they were to collect intelligence for us on the island
5 of Cuba where they still had people. They were to be a symbol
6 of a certain amount of resistance therefore they had to engage
7 in certain activities, propaganda, radio broadcasts, correspon-
8 dence to their friends and associates on the inside to show
9 that there was a spark on the outside, around which people could
10 rally.
11 They also wanted to have a boat to move people inside
12 and out of Cuba, and the money, the subsidy that we gave them
13 helped them do all of these things. And we got an accounting
14 from them. But we did not control each and every action that
15 they took, so that if they chose, you know, not to report
16 something to us, we wouldn't necessarily know it, and not
17 every little detail of their organization did we know. If
18 they met somebody

19 Senator Schweiker. Well, I can understand that because
20 there were a lot of groups like that, I'm sure.
21 Mr. Halley. But that particular one was one with which
22 we had a subsidy relationship.

23 Senator Schweiker. Do you recall who your control
24 relationship was with that particular group? I assume there
25 was a CIA control relationship.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Halley. Yes, there was a particular man that was in

2 Liaison with that group, and there were several during that poriod

3 of time.

4 Senator Schweiker. Might it have been Carlos Bringuier,

5 the name we mentioned before?

6 Mr. Halley. You mentioned the name, and to be honest, the

7 name doesn't ring a bell. But is he also known as Fatty?

8 Senator Schweiker. Well, you've got me now.

9 Mr. Haliny. Well, every Cuban has an alias, like, they

10 call him El Gordo or something like that.

11 Senator Schweiker. Well, it might be. He fits it.

12 Mr. Halley. Well, you might be able to answer this. Was

13 he the fellow that was on the DRE boat that raided Havana?

14 I have trouble matching up some of these names, and frankly,

15 that name doesn't ring a bell, but I might have known him as

16 El Gordo, and he was on the boat, and we dealt with different

17 people.

18 (Discussion off the record.)

19 Mr. Johnston. Let me show you WAVE cable 8049, dated

20 21 November '63, which is your report on this DRE matter,

21 that cable basically indicates that you got information from

22 DRE about Oswald.

23 Is that correct?

24 Mr. Halley. Yes. The wording of this particular cable

25 shows that we did get from the DRD files this information.

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Johnston. My question to you is, of partial signifi-
2 cance, and that is the fact that that cable says that Oswald
3 "allegedly lives in home of Foreign Minister for two months."

4 My question is that this allegation that he lived in
5 the home of the Soviet foreign minister has never been
6 substantiated through any other source, and I wonder whether
7 you have a recollection of going back to DRE to see where
8 they got that information.

9 Mr. Halley. No, I don't have a recollection of going back
10 on that specific cable.

11 Mr. Johnston. Do you have any recollection of headquarter
12 ever coming back to you and saying what is the hource of that

13 Mr. Halley. Xyou know, I don't see how you can expect de
14 to remember that, really. You know, in the course of a day,
15 a normal day, I might read a thousand cables.

16 Senator Schweiker. Well, does the fact that he might
17 have lived in a Soviet foreign minister's home for two months
18 ring a bell?

19 Mr. Holley. Well, you know, showing me that cable, t
20 have to accept the cable at face value. That is what it says.
21 I acknowledge that is what it says. The cable says we got in
22 from the DRE. I sccept it on face value. That incident,
23 the foreign minister's residence, does not ring a bell wick so.

24 Senator Schweiker. So you wouldn't know ofthand where we
25 allegation came from.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Halley. No, I don't know. We would have to go back
2 to them and their criteria for carding might not coincide with
3 ours. In other words, many of these Cuban groups were prone
4 to act on rumors. They were prone to publicize things, that
5 were not true. The DRE had a record of publicizing, embroideri,
6 elaborating on things, and therefore we treated a lot of their
7 material with caution.
8 Senator Schweiker. Right.
9 Go ahead, Paul.
10 Mr. Wallach. Generally, now, and I'm not asking for
11 specific conversations at all. I think it is entirely true,
12 It is a caveat throughout this entire thing, we are talking
13 about 13 years ago, millions of matters ago. But generally, do
14 you recall whether or not the FBI, the people you dealt with
15 had any general knowledge of the CIA's capability inside
16 Cuba to get information?
17 Mr. Halley. Well, I think it would be fair to say that
18 the FBI knew the kinds of operations that we were running, and
19 I think they could have drawn certain conclusions about, you
20 know, what our capability might have been. That is, let me
21 put this in perspective. I'm talking about the people in
22 Miami. Occasionally when I would come to Washington for
23 conferences, I would meet somebody like Papich. We happened
24 to be, you know, friends, and I would talk to him and say
25 how are you doing, how are things going, what kind of activiti

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

## TOP SECRET

1 are you involved in?

2 Papich probably have a feel for the scope of our activity,
3 but whether he would have an appreciation of the kinds of
4 specific sources, I doubt it.

5 Mr. Wallach. In other words, you would doubt whether or
6 not anyone in the Bureau would have known whether or not you
7 had an extremely high level source in Castro's entourage.

8 Mr. Halley. I doubt that they would know that.

9 Mr. Wallach. At any time, do you recall after the assassi-
10 nation, anyone from the Bureau, even from the Miami field office
11 or from headquarters, through Papich, through your headquarters
12 contacting you to determine whether or not you had the capability
13 to conduct investigations on Cuba?

14 Mr. Halley. No, I don't recall that.

15 Do you want me -- can we go off the record for a minute?

16 Senator Schweiker. Yes.

17 (Discussion off the record.)

18 Mr. Wallach. Let's go back on the record.

19 Were you known to the FBI under your real name or under
20 an alias?

21 Mr. Halley. No, I was known to the FBI under my true
22 name. If you are wondering about whether the name is going to
23 show up in the FBI records, I think they always would, in the
24 writing of reports, do not use the true names. In other words
25 they say, you know, source or confidential informant, or A-1

## TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

TOP SECRET

1. whatever it was called, and that is the way they write their reports.

2. Mr. Wallach. Let me ask you this. I realize this was a subject matter that was covered in your previous testimony.

3. I deem it of relevance, and I would like to ask you here, were you aware on November 22nd, 1963, that the CIA had at some point

4. in time prior to that date itself engaged in attempts to assassinate or used others in attempts to assassinate Fidel Castro?

5. Mr. Halley. No. I think the basic answer to that question is no, but if you looked at my previous testimony, I previously said that in the case of this Cuban comandante over the years,

6. I had acquired some knowledge of the fact that he existed and he was being run by my colleagues in Washington, but that was

7. was not known to me as a clearcut assassination operation. In other words, at one point in time I knew that Des Fitzgerald

8. was going to meet this fellow. I knew at one point in time there was going to be a meeting in Spain. I knew at one point

9. in time that we were putting caches in to support this particular fellow. I never knew whether the caches were recovered, and

10. things like that. But the fundamental answer is no.

11. I have also previously testified that on some of the activities that were being engaged in by Mr. Harvey, that I

12. was not knowledgeable on, you know, the thrust of those activities.

13. Mr. Wallach. Did your own sources in the Cuban community?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

TOP SECRET

tell you that the, what we call the underworld, the Mafia,

was engaging in attempts to assassinate Fidel Castro?

Mr. Halley. I don't recall any such reports, but I've

explained this, and let me go again on this, that the word "assassination" was part of the ambience of that

time. In other words, every Cuban that you talked to, nobody could be involved in Cuban operations without having had

some sort of a discussion at some time with some Cuban who said, gee, we ought to knock this guy off, or I'd shoot him if

I had the chance, or the way to create a revolution is to shoot Fidel and Raul, and then go down through the whole

proposition. So the fact that somebody would talk about assassination just wasn't anything that was really out of civ

ordinary at the time. It was part of the climate. These were professional revolutionaries in some cases, men who had

been in the 26th of July movement and left, and come in and become exiles, and had been exiles two or three times.

Revolution and assassination was a way of life for them.

Mr. Wallach. Did you have any doubt in your mind that

Castro was aware in November 1963 that the CIA was supporting those revolutionaries?

Mr. Halley. Supporting revolutionaries.

Mr. Wallach. Right.

Mr. Halley. Yes, I think Castro knew that the United States was in touch with groups like the DRE, that people

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

TOP SECRET

1 were being infiltrated by CIA into Cuba, because they apprehended
2 some of them.

3 Mr. Wallach. Groups that were trying to overthrow
4 Castro.

5 Mr. Halley, but he had to assume that if they were coming
6 in, they were setting up guerilla forces in places like
7 Oriente Province, and Pinar del Rio, that yes, they were going
8 to work to overthrow him, and he had to know that.

9 Mr. Wallach. Were you aware of any other country that
10 the United States Government was at that time attempting to
11 overthrow the government of, and we can get your answer of
12 the record if it is positive.

13 Mr. Hailey, weil wait a minute. Would you rephra
14 that? I'm not sure I follow that particular one.

15 Mr. Wallach. You came back to me with the word assassi
16 nation, said it was part of the ambience of the times, that
17 that might have been discoused of one time or another, My
18 belief, as a layman, hau biển I don't see that much of a
19 distinction between sonding someone In who is going to try
20 foment a revolution, the result of which would probably be
21 the death of Cistro as opposed to sending someone in to-
22 don't want to get into this, but I think that may have bew
23 sonmaching that you were bouding on

24 In any ovat, are you aware of any other country th
25 the U.S. at that the was directing attempts to overthrow th

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

TOP SECRET

1 government of?

2 Mr. Halley. No. Off the top of my head, no, but I

3 de want to come back to your point. I do think there is a

4 difference in the Latin American revolutionary sense of plotting

5 a revolution against somebody as opposed to plotting a

6 specific assassination operation against a particular individual.

7 You know, maybe we have an honest difference of opinion on that

8 point, but my view differs from yours.

9 Mr. Wallach. All right, let me continue on.

10 You also mentioned before that some of the people, the

11 people that you felt were making general policy, were Helms,

12 Bobby Kennedy, at one point Ed Lansdale.

13 Mr. Halley. Uh-huh.

14 Mr. Wallach. Did the Cubans know that? Did the Cubans

15 know that Bobby Kennedy was involved?

16 Mr. Halley. I don't know that they were at that point in

17 time, but clearly at later points of time when the Brigade 2506

18 returned, yes, they knew that Bobby Kennedy was in the Cuban

19 policy affairs. Leaders of the Brigade like Artline, Oliva,

20 the San Juan brothers and others were brought to Washington

21 for lunches, dinners with, I guess at that time it was the

22 Attorney General, because there were various phases in this

23 thing.

24 Yes, they knew he was involved in Cuban affairs.

25 Mr. Wallach. Are you familiar with an article that appea

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# TOP SECRET

In I think it was the September 7th issue of the New Orleans Times-Picayune, among other newspapers, which reflected an interview Castro had with Daniel Harker of the AP, within which he said in substance that U.S. leaders would be in danger if they continued in their attempts, I think he used the word "eliminate".

Mr. Halley. Yes, I'm familiar with the general article, yes, but I can't tell you with certainty that I was aware of that article at the time that it appeared. In other words you're asking about 1961, did you say it appeared?

Mr. Wallach. September 7, 1963.

Mr. Halley. I cannot swear that I knew about it in 1963. I since know that that article has been referred to a number of times.

Mr. Johnston. Let me just state for the record that I did not bring the WAVE cable on it, but WAVE did pass to headquarters the gist of that article as it appeared in Miami articles, passed that information to headquarters either on the 23rd or 24th of November because the FBI was inquiring about exile groups claiming that Castro had threatened Kennedy anyway, so that at least WAVE had knowledge right after the assassination of that article.

Mr. Halley. All right. The reason I qualify my response... that may have been a cable that would have been released by some member of my staff. It didn't necessarily follow that...

# TOP SECRET

![photo of NW#:55510 DocId:32423435]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

TOP SECRET

1 was a WAVE cable, that I personally released it. I don't happen
2 to recall it, but I am familiar with the article and the thrust
3 of it.
4 Mr. Wallach. I realize again you may not have been famili
5 with it at that time, or even before the assassination, but
6 what - and I'm not asking specifically for what facts, but
7 you have testified previously that - I don't want to paraphrase
8 your testimony, it speaks for itself - that you had no reason
9 to believe that the Cubans were involved in the assassination
10 of President Kennedy.
11 Mr. Halley. Yes, at the time that the incident occurred,
12 and when Oswald was apprehended, I had no reason to believe
13 that the Cubans were involved.
14 Mr. Wallach. Taking the other side of the coin, what
15 evidence was there in your mind that they were not involved?
16 Mr. Halley. Well, because we didn't have any evidence
17 that they were.
18 Mr. Wallach. Did you conduct any investigation at all to
19 determine if there was any involvement?
20 Mr. Halley. I didn't have any charter for that. I know,
21 people were arrested. The FBI and the authorities in that
22 particular, in Dallas, were pursuing the case. I had no
23 charter to pursue that.
24 Mr. Wallach. Did you ever ask Mr. Helms whether or not
25 you could conduct such an investigation, or did he ever tell

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

TOP SECRET

1 you that you could or could not?

2 Mr. Halley. No, I answered that, that I don't recall

3 any such conversation where Helms told me I could or could not.

4 I mean, this was not a subject that was being discussed.

5 I think the frame of reference at the time was that this

6 was not a jurisdictional case for the CIA to pursue.

7 Mr. Wallach. You mean, the President of the United States

8 is murdered, and it is not within the jurisdiction of the CIA

9 to determine if a foreign country is involved?

10 Mr. Halley. Not if the investigation is run by the

11 FBI and a person is apprehended, and one is going to assume

12 that he is going to be interrogated, investigative leads are

13 going to be obtained from it, and a particular agency has got

14 the action responsibility. Under those circumstances, my

15 perception of the various rules is that CIA performs a support

16 function. In other words, if you are asked for a name

17 trace, or traces on telephone numbers, physical descriptions,

18 you know, license plates, whatever it may be, you respond.

19 Mr. Wallach. Who gave you those instructions, that

20 CIA was only going to have a support function?

21 Mr. Halley. That is my perception.

22 Mr. Wallach. Who told you that?

23 Mr. Halley. Nobody has to tell you that. You're an

24 intelligence human being. You're allowed to think for yourself

25 and you can come to logical conclusions.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Wallach. Did somebody tell youtthat the F31 had

2 primary jurisdiction?

3 Mr. Halley. No, but the FBI has primary jurisdiction,.

4 this is something we are taught in our training coursen, in

5 the United States, you know, for cases in the United States.

6 For instance, my explanation of this -- I gave you an explanation.

7 of the counterintelligence case in the States where we found

8 a Cuban agent in the United States,and the jurisdiction of the

9 case reverted to the FBI.

10 Senator Schweiker. De you want to make a comment here,

11 Seymour?

12 Mr. Bolten. I'd like to go off the record.

13 Senator Schweiker. All right.

14 (Discussion off the record.)

15 Senator Schweiker. Let's go back on the record.

16 Mr. Wallach. I have one or two more questions on this.

17 Senator Schweiker. All right.

18 Mr. Wallach. Did at any time during the existence of

19 Warren Commission, do you recall and I'm not asking for

20 Specific event, but do you recall having guy type of ind

21 relationship with that Commission, in essence, responding to

22 requests that were made of the Agency and they asking you fou

23 general information?

24 Mr. Halley. Would you give me the dates of the Warren

25 Commission?

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Wallach. December 1, '63 --

2 Mr. Halley. December 1, '63 to when?

3 Mr. Wallach. September of '64.

4 Mr. Halley. No. No.

5 Mr. Wallach. Do you have any reason today to believe

6 that there was Cuban involvement in the assassination of

7 President Kennedy?

8 Mr. Halley. I have no hard information on that.

9 Mr. Wallach. Do you have any hearsay information?

10 Mr. Halley. No. I mean, hearsay information, what

11 constitutes hearsay? Criel wrote an article in the Washington

12 Post, you know, suggesting that there is some -- is that

13 hearsay evidence? I mean, I don't happen to believe his thesis.

14 Mr. Wallach. I am asking you if you have any belief as an

15 expert?

16 Mr. Halley. As an expert I only deal in facts, in other

17 words not -- what I consider hard intelligence, I don't have

18 any hard intelligence.

19 Mr. Johnston, Other than the FBI, did you have a liaison

20 with other investigative agencies?

21 Mr. Halley. Yes, I did.

22 Mr. Johnston. Did you have an investigative relationship

23 with the U.S. Customs Department, specifically a Customs

24 agent who was on detail to CIA?

25 Mr. Halley. Yes, we had a relationship with a Customs

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

TOP SECRET

1 Agent by the name of Caesar DeEstado was
detalled on an arrangement between CIA which was in being when
I came to the station. His primary function was to be
stationed in Key West, Florida. He generally covered the area
from Key West to either Marathon or it could have been --
either Marathon or El Marado, and his tasks were, to
Find Cubans who were coming into the United States in small
boats, and to ensure that he took a quick look at them to
see if any one of them could be turned around to be used as
intelligence sources. If they couldn't be used as intelligence
sources, he skimmed off the perishable information that was
really critical, and then put it into our system. He also
flagged the knowledgeable people for further exploitation by
us when the went to the Opa Loca briefing center. He also
picked up equipment, that is documents from these people,
weapons, clothing, so that we could use authentic clothing to
equip our own teams.
Mr. Johnston. Did he also stay in contact with certain
Cuban exiles?
Mr. Halley. He did stay in contact with Cuban exile
groups because it was part of his job to know when they were
going out so that we didn't have these uncoordinated problems.
In other words, at one point we tried to stop them. To also
know who was in the area running a training camp or
something like that, so that our operations would not be

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# TOP SECRET

1 compromised by coming into a camp next to where some exiled
2 Cubans were already working.

3 Mr. Johnston. And did he let me back up. First, have
4 you participated in the Agency's response to the Committee’s
5 written inquiry about this?

6 Mr. Halley. Well, to this extent, somebody in the Agency
7 called me and said the Committee had a request in for some
8 data on a Customs officer. Nobody could remember his name. I
9 happened to remember his name. I said Caesar DeEstado was the
10 guy's name. I don't remember how to spell it. Phonetically
11 I think it is as follows, and try to find a file on it. And
12 so to that extent, yes, I am aware that there was some sort of
13 a response being prepared. I did not see the response. I
14 don't know what it says.

15 Mr. Johnston. Do you know whether he was asked either by
16 you or by anybody in WAVE to contact Cuban exiles after the
17 assassination to see what knowledge they might have?

18 Mr. Halley. Well, let me try to clarify that, I was
19 not his contact point. In other words, I was a manager of a
20 large operation.

21 Mr. Johnston. I understand that. So did anybody under
22 your control contact him?

23 Mr. Halley. His point of contact was in Key West. Periodi-
24 cally he would either come to Miami or meet with one of our
25 people, and once every three months or something like that.

# TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

TOP SECRET

1 would have a meeting with him to review broad trends, either
2 in Key West or in Miami. I never taked him with this type of
3 thing. I don't recall anybody else in the station tasking him
4 to conduct an investigation of Cuban groups relative to the
5 President's assassination. But as we were putting together
6 mood cables -- you showed me an example of one there -- it is
7 conceivable that he is the kind of person that we would have
8 talked to to find out what was going on in the Cuban community
9 at that time.

10 Mr. Johnston. Do you know whether he did in fact contact
11 Cuban exiles about it? Do you have any knowledge of his contact with
12 Cuban exiles?

13 Mr. Halley. I don't have any firsthand knowlodge.

14 Mr. Johnston. Do you have any knowledge whatsoever?

15 Mr. Halley. I would have to say firsthand, I don't

16 recall any information of any subordinate of mine reporting me
17 that he had done that.

18 Mr. Johnston. You testified earlier that you met with
19 Mr. Fitzgerald at some point, and what he told you at that
20 time that he made contact personally with a Cuban agent, and
21 named AHLASH?

22 Mr. Halley. I think my testimony was something along the
23 line, that I had a conversation with Fitzgerald, that he was
24 going to meet a Cuban source. My recollection was that the
25 name may have come up, that he was asking my opinion and adv.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

TOP SECRET

1 as to whether this would be a useful thing to do. And as I
2 have testified before, my recollection is I told him I thought
3 I would find this conversation interesting, but I didn't think
4 it was worth his doing because he had too high a profile, and
5 it would not be a good thing to do from the point of view of
6 attribution in relationship to a clandestine agent.

7 Mr. Johnston. And Let me go through what you have just
8 told me..

9 First of all, was this agent, when be used the true
10 name, was it the agent whose cryptonym is AMLASH?

11 Mr. Halley. Yes. Subsequently I have concluded that that
12 is who it is.

13 Mr. Johnston. Did ho tell you of indicate that a meetin
14 between him and ANLASH was proposed?

15 Mr. Halley. Well, he was considering a meeting with
16 ANLASH, with this particular person.

17 Mr. Johnston. Do you have a recollection as to what
18 timeframe your discussion with Mr. Fitzgerald was?

19 Mr. Halley. No, I don't.

20 Mr. Johnston. Knowing that Mr. Fitzgerald met with
21 AMLASH on October 29th, 1963, does that refresh your recollection
22 as to whether the conversation took place earlier in 1963?

23 Mr. Halley. I am sorry, I can't narrow that down for
24 you.

25 Mr. Johnston. But you advised against the meeting.

TOP SECRET

NW#: 55510 DocId: 32423455


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

TOP SECRET

Mr. Halley. Right.

Mr. Johnston. You ware knowledgeable, I take it, of the Agency's dealing with AMLASH from time to time, as part of JMWAVE.

Mr. Halley. Yes. I mentioned to you mariler that we had put in caches which were scheduled to be retrieved by AMLASH or his people, so yes, I knew that we were providing support to an agent in Cuba, but that was not unusual because No Ker putting in a larga number of caches for a wide variety of people who were being run out of Washington, over and out of ather stations..

NZ. Jolastion. And you may have testified about this before but was it common to drop caches of rifles or telescopic sigit for agents?

Mr. Halley, I would not recessarily have known what was in each cache.

Mr. Jomston. Well, was it common to drop, to your knнам во to drop rifles with telescopic sights?

Mr. Halley. Well, I think the thing that would be opinion would be telescopic sights. Many of our bacnes were Houpons coches. A large bulk of the caches were rifles of end kind or another, we put in the FAL, the Belgian FAL, put in is. We put in cabines, we put in Springfields, pat Lu Thompson submachine gans. I think if I were looking a cache list and I saw a telescope on it matched up with a

TOP SECRET

![photo of a cache list]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

TOP SECRET

1.  Springfield "03 rifle, that probably would have struck me as being unusual, but I did not see the inventories of all the caches.

2.  Mr. Johnston. Would you commonly or routinely see cables from the Director, especially on the AMLASH operation?

3.  Mr. Halley. No.

4.  From the Director to whom?

5.  Mr. Johnston. TO JMWAVE.

6.  Mr. Halley. My recollection is, other than specific requests to put in caches, that there wasn't any cable traffic

7.  between Washington and JMWAVE on that particular operation.

8.  Mr. Johnston. I am searching through my notes --

9.  Mr. Halley. Right.

10. Mr. Johnston. The Committee does not have copies of the file of AMLASH. That is at the Agency. Let me, if you'll

11. accept it as a fact that there was a cable in early December 1963 from the Director to JMWAVE directing, using the crypt

12. AMLASH and directing that a cache be supplied him, including an that, itemizing two rifles with telescopic sights.

13. Mr. Halley. Than kind of a cable I may or may not have seen. In other words, that would have been a fairly standard

14. Logistics kind of thing to get a cache and it would have come up on my briefing chart for the month, the operation, a number

15. of days before the operation was launched, I would have had a briefing with all of the paramilitary and maritime officers

TOP SECRET

NW#:55510 DocId:32423433


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

TOP SECRET

1 and our COMINT, ELINT and other specialists to look at the OV
2 and make a decision as to whether the operation should go or
3 not go. At that point I probably would have known that it was
4 a cache, that it contained weapons, that it was in support of
5 a headquarters run operation.
6 Mr. Johnston. Do you recall on or about 7 or 8 December
7 1963 a stop being put on operations, certain operations that
8 went into Cuba?
9 Mr. Halley. I don't recall that specific timeframe, but
10 there were periodic ups and downs in the number of operations
11 that could be run. We would get policy guidance to stand
12 down for a period of time, that once one of those things came
13 out, I think that we had a series of discussions, I think with
14 Washington, and appeals, that if there was a standdown, and
15 we had to say something, who were dependent on us in Cuba
16 for food and a continuing flow of weapons, that we couldn't
17 have them preparing these caches and risking their lives to
18 come to the reception points and not be able to meet the
19 schedules.
20 Mr. Johnston. Do you recall, though, in the period of, 1
21 and 2 December, headquarters first authorizing certain
22 operations and then calling off the operations, and specifically
23 cables which said, and I quote -- pardon me, I don't quote.
24 The operations being called off, "pending major top level
25 Cuban-Caribbean policy review scheduled early next week which.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

TOP SECRET

Prona (Area 202) 343-4000

1 should provide basis for decision.

2 Mr. Halley. I don't recall your specific dates or your

3 timeframe, but the point I would like to leave with you is that

4 there were several periods like that where we had upsand downs,

5 and yes, I do recall standdowns on operations.

6 Mr. Johnston. You don't recall a standdown within two

7 weeks of the assassination of President Kennedy.

8 Mr. Halley. I am sorry, I don't. You know, I accept that

9 it occurred, but you know, there were so many of those during

10 the three and a half year period of time that I don't recall

11 that specific one.

12 Mr. Johnston. What does the phrase "higher authority"

13 generally mean in Agency cables?

14 Mr. Halley. Well, at that particular point in time, I

15 think higher authority was a euphemism for the President and

16 top level policy decisionmakers at the NSC 40 Committee level.

17 Mr. Johnston. And again, you don't recall knowing in

18 the same time period, December 1963, that you were cabled that

19 the headquarters procedure was to present the infiltration

20 procedures to higher authority.

21 Mr. Halley. Well, I have forgotten the date when this

22 transition took place. As of a fixed date, in the course

23 of this operation, we had to supply all of our infiltration

24 oparations a month in advance. I'm sorry, I just don't

25 recall when that went into effect. Prior to that time we

TOP SECRET

NW#:55510 DocId:32425439


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

TOP SECRET

1 pretty well scheduling these ourselves, but then a requsat
2 came in that we put these in a month in advance. Bo So as I
3 told you before, if I wanted to run a schedule for October, I
4 had to have it in in Washington with all of the Ops plans
5 by I think the 15th of September.
6 Senator Schweiker. Did a former ambassador William
7 Pauley, a man called Willian Pauley, who at one time owned
8 properties in Havana and now living in Miami, did he ever
9 finance some of the operations that you are aware of out of
10 Miami, William Pauley?
11 Mr. Halley. Yes, I know BELL Paulay. He was involved in
12 in my time, in one specific operational activity. I don't
13 think it would be proper to hay that he financed it, however.
14 Senator Schweiker. This is the one weere people were
15 killed in a boat raid?
16 Mr. Halley. Well, we don't know what happened to t
17 My recollection of the operation is that Bill Pauley wa
18 approached by Life Magazine, and this was involved with an
19 Individual by the name of John Martino, because this has co
20 up recently. The Committee has asked me about this before i
21 told them at first I couldn't remember the name, and I had
22 to go back and conduce à file search, and I came up with
23 John Martino's name, who had been involved in gambling casin
24 in Cuba.
25 Martino was in touch with a number of Cubans who

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

TOP SECRET

1 claimed that they had access to two soviet missile technicians.

2 Pauley brought this operation to the Agency, and the Agency

3 agreed that we would cooperate with then in pursuit of this

4 operation.

5 Senator Schweiker. And Time-Life did some funding for

6 it, too?

7 Mr. Halley. Well, they were involved, but they did not

8 fund it. My recollection is Pauley made the boat available,

9 the Flying Tiger, which was his yacht, we paid for the gas and

10 oil for that particular boat, and we provided all of the other

11 equipment that went into the operation. Pauley went on that

12 vessel down to the launch point. The men were launched in a

13 small infiltration boat. It took off, went off toward the

14 Cuban mainland, and were never seen or heard from since then.

15 We never had any reporting on them.

16 Senator Schweiker. Was Pauley involved with other

17 operations with you folks, or is that the only one?

18 Mr. Halley. That is the only operation that he was

19 involved with the Agency. He, however, was very helpful in

20 terms of providing advice on various people that he had known

21 from his long involvement in Cuba. He was useful in providing

22 introductions to various people that we wanted to meet. I

23 recall on one occasion he introduced me to a prominent Cuban

24 that I wanted to meet. He brokered that.

25 Pauley, on his own, gave money to various Cuban groups.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

TOP SECRET

unrelated to what we were doing. He was also a participant in the raising of the initial ransca for the members of Brigade 2506.

Senator Schweiker, here is an article - rather than me rand It, I'll give you a chance to zean it. It is Claire Booth Luce. As you know, she is on the Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, and has been for some time, and Bill Colby was her chief of station when she was ambassador to Italy. This story came to me not through the paper, frankly, but from Mrs. Luce personally, expressing her concern. It subsequently did appear in a paper and I did not release it. Mrs. Luce specifically released it to Betty Beale, and the reason it i relevant here is that from what I read here, the group the is referring to is probably the DIE group or some part of the DHE group in Now Orleans, and while that is not too clear, she did associate Mr. William Paulay with it. But that i somewhat confused, because you said he wasn't involved in any osher operation other than the one you mentioned..

Mr. Halley. Well, I'm -- Mr. Pauley, I know Mr. Pauler and Mrs. Luco are friends. They see each other, or they usen I haven't seen them in a number of years, but they used to be in the same social circuit, so I am sure that Mr. Pauler recounted a war scory in his contacts, so sho is probably aware of the general operation to get the two Soviets oQUE O Cuba. That is the only operation that he ran with us durin

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

TOP SECRET

1 my stewardship of the station.

2 Senator Schweiker. There is a vast difference of recollec

3 tion between the two on what happened. She very strongly

4 recollects that in addition to the thing that you described,

5 which is a matter of record, by the way, with the Senate

6 Committee, it is a matter of Committee record, in addition to

7 that, that this is in it also.

8 Rather than read the whole thing, you might read the

9 paragraphs I have outlined. She feela vary strongly about it.

10 She has called me several times about it. She is absolutely

11 certain of her information, and her Cuban source doesn't want

12 to talk for fear of his life.

13 (The Witness reads the document.)

14 Mr. Halley. No, that doesn't ring any bolls. I cannot

15 put that in any context,

16 Let me go back to this Pauley business. I think at one

17 time, one other thing that Pauley did for us, I think he

18 provided an opportunity for us to pick up some cargo in tho

19 Dominican Republic to provide cover for one of our vessels shot

20 we were using at that time for infiltration operations in the

21 area but those are the only chings that I can remember off

22 top of my head.

23 Senator Schweiker. You see, where he says here that

24 contact with a group, the story goes on to say that this

25 group supplied a tape and pictures of that contact, and this

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

TOP SECRETS

Phone (Area 202) 344-6000

1 FBI did not follow them up, which is a rather serious charge

2 itself, and that is why I wonder if there is some DRB relation-

3 ship here with Bringuier.

4 Maybe you can give us that case officer's name, Seymour.

5 Mr. Bolten. Which one?

6 Senator Schweiker. The case officer for the DRE group.

7 It would have to be the one at the time when Oswald was

8 in New Orleans, which is -- when was that?

9 Mr. Johnston. The fall of '63.

10 (Discussion off the record.)

11 Senator Schweiker. Going on, I didn't follow the final

12 question on DeBstada, your detail man to Customs.

13 Were you aware that he was doing some investigating

14 after the Kennedy assassination?

15 Mr. Halley. No, I don't have any firsthand recollection

16 of that.

17 Senator Schweiker. And the way you were structured, would

18 he be the logical person to, if somebody asked for either a

19 name check or some follow-up --

20 Mr. Halley. He would have been the logical person if he

21 had something specific to pursue or he would have been the

22 logical person to put a question to if we were looking for

23 atmospheric, you know, what the Cuban community was thinking.

24 Senator Schweiker. How about Julio Lobo?

25 Mr. Halley. He's the sugar king.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

TOP SECRET

1 Senator Schweiker. He's the sugar king there.

2 Did he assist with any of your operations, either financially or in terms of his people or in terms of his organization

3 Mr. Halley, My recollection of that, there was no direct

4 contact between us and Julio Lobo. We did have various

5 Cuban investigative and research groups that we were working

6 with. My belief is that one of these groups must have been

7 tapping Lobo for his knowledge of the sugar market, because

8 we were constantly making projections of where the sugar crop

9 was going in Cuba, because that impacted on the stability of the

10 Cuban economy. In other words, when it was a good crop, you

11 could figure that Castro's going to have millions of dollars.

12 When he didn't have a good crop, this was going to impact on

13 where he wanted to go with building the revolution.

14 Senator Schweiker. There is another name that I believe

15 had some relationship with him, maybe businesswise, James

16 Coyswell, de Caldwell.

17 Mr. Halley, Caldwell. I think that was the fellow that

18 was employed by the Agency at one time.

19 Senator Schweiker. Right.

20 Mr. Halley. Who was --

21 Senator Schweiker. What was his project at that point?

22 Mr. Halley. He was working here in Washington. He was

23 on the Cuban project to Washington. He was primarily concerned

24 with economic activities and how pressure could be put on it.

25 TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

TOP SECRET

1 Cuban economy.

2 Senator Schweiker. And how about an Antonio Veciana,

3 a Cuban name?

4 Mr. Halley. Yeah, I think he's the owner, one of the
5 part owners in the restaurant in Miami called Las Violinas.

6 Senator Schweiker. At one point he worked for --

7 Mr. Halley. Could you spell the name?

8 Senator Schweiker. Maybe I'm not pronouncing it right.

9 v-e-c-i-a-n-a.

10 Mr. Halley. I think that's the fellow who used to

11 run the restaurant called Las Violinas, and he was involved
12 with a number of Cuban exile groups. I think he was connec-
13 ted with the second front of the Escambrai, but that is off the
14 top of my head. We'd have to do a trace.

15 Senator Schweiker. Did David Phillips, during your
tenure there, have any assignment in Cuba?

16 What was his relationship at the time of this period?

17 David Phillips? That's head of the Retired --

18 Mr. Halley. Yes, at that point in time he was station:

19 in Mexico City, and my recollection was that he was involved
20 in covert operation activities against Cuba out of Mexico
21 City, and he may have been involved in operations against the
22 Cuban embassy in Mexico City. I am a little vaguer on that
23 on the first part.

24 I know we had some travelers going down to Mexico City.

25

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

TOP SECRET

1 and their point of contact frequently was Dave Phillips, but
2 most of those fellows were dealing with propaganda distribution
3 but he could well also have worked against the installation.

4 At that time he was not the station chief. He was a
5 secondary figure, I guess, at the station.

6 Senator Schweiker. Did Howard Hughes or his organization
7 or Intertel, assist you in any operations, and I am going to
8 exclude for the moment Mr. Maheu, who we know had a very
9 specific role, excluding the Maheu situation with Giancana
10 and Rosselli that I think you are familiar withy --

11 Mr. Halley. Yes.

12 Senator Schweiker. To your knowledge, did Howard Hughes,
13 Intertel or any of his other groups or associations assist
14 or work with you in the Cuban operation?

15 Mr. Halley. Not with the Miami station that I am aware
16 of.

17 Senator Schweiker. Well, I'm not talking about --

18 Mr. Halley. Well, back here in Washington that could be,
19 but I have no knowledge of it. I can only answer it out of
20 the Miami context.

21 Senator Schweiker. At one point in time, probably when
22 you first came aboard, there was a Lt. Colonel Samuel Kailis,
23 who was military attache to the Cuban embassy.

24 Does that make ring a bell?

25 Mr. Halley. Yes, it does.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

NW#:55510 DocId: 32423435

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

TOP SECRET

59

Senator Schweiker. What role was he playing when you came aboard?

Mr. Halley. He either came about the same time that I arrived in Miami, and he was in fact the number two fellow at the Opa Locka debriefing center. We had an inter-agency debriefing center set up at Opa Locka. The head of the center was a CIA officer. His principal deputy was Kale. He was the general administrator of the program and he supervised the military personnel who were on detail to the center, and there were debriefing people there for positive intelligence, and when they found someone who was particularly knowledgeable or had some operational exploitation, they would relay them to us.

Senator Schweiker. Was he ever detailed to CIA or was he strictly Army intelligence?

Mr. Halley. No, at that time he was an Army officer working on a joint project that wasn't a detail assignment. He was just assigned to Opa Locka.

Senator Schweiker. Purely Army, but working with you cooperatively.

Mr. Halley. Well, I think what happened, unlike most overseas, a table of organization was drawn up for the Opa Locka centers, and it was agreed that the head of that center would be CIA, so we assured that way that the deputy of the center would be a military.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

TOP SECRET

officer. Therefore Kale was assigned to that. He continued to receive his pay, quarters, and other allowance through the military establishment.

Senator Schweiker. What about when he was at the Havana embassy?

You are talking about, I guess, after he left the Havana embassy.

Mr. Halley. Yes, I am talking about the period 1963 forward, and as I recall, he must have been there up to the end of my tenure there. I have forgotten when he left. I have no knowledge of his activities in Havana. That was before my time. I simply know that he served in Havana, that he was a social acquaintance of a number of the officers that I knew in the station, but I had no firsthand knowledge.

Senator Schweiker. How about Robert Brown or Colonel Nichols, the same question, Robert Brown?

Mr. Halley. Senator, you'll have to give me something more than Robert brown. That doesn't give me anything.

The other was what, Colonel Stelmoker?

Senator Schweiker. Colonel Nichols, he was also at the Havana embassy at some point in time.

Mr. Halley. I would have no knowledge of him.

Senator Schweiker. There was a group called Colala Fantasma. Are you familiar with that group?

Mr. Halley. I have heard the name.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

TOP SECRET

1 Senator Schweiker. And it was a project where two
2 American pilots were killed. The group conducted some para
3 military operation.

4 Mr. Halley, That doesn't ring a bell, but the Celula
5 Fantasma is a name that I've heard. I can't put it into any
6 broader context for you. It certainly was not one of our
7 operations.

8 Senator Schweiker. That was really my question.
9 Do you recall -- was there anyone using the name or
10 cryptoname of Bishop for you at any point in time in terms of
11 the cuban operations, either Morris Bishop or some other
12 Bishop?

13 Mr, Halley. That name doesn't mean anything to me.
14 Senator Schweiker. Here is a sketch of a person. Does
15 this sketch look like anyone that might have been associated.
16 cuban operations, either pro-Castro of anti-Castro?

17 (The Witness looks at a sketch.)

18 Mr. Halley. No, it doesn't. I mean, there is something
19 about the face that is familiar, but I can't put a name to
20 it and it doesn't ring any bells with me in relationship to
21 cuban operation.

22 Senator Schweiker. We'll ask Seymour.

23 Seymour, how about you, any recollection?

24 Mr. Halley. Is it supposed to be Cuban or an American?

25 Senator Schweiker. I think an American, but I'm not clear.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

TOP SECRET

1 on that, someone who did do some work in the Cuban activities,
2 supposedly on the anti-Castro side.
3 Mr. Bolten. He has very regular features, so he could
4 be almost anybody, you know.
5 And like John says, it is a sort of -- he could be familiar.
6 No, I wouldn't place him with anyone I know.
7 Senator Schweiker. Go ahead.
8 Mr. Johnston. Do you recall Director McCone visiting the
9 station in early December of mid-December of 1963?
10 Mr. Halley. Mr. McCone made a couple of visits to
11 Florida. I'm not sure it would be fair to say that he
12 visited the station. My recollection of that is he came to
13 Florida. He was put in the property that we had, we had
14 conversations with him out at that property, but he didn't
15 come out to the physical plant, that is, our station premise,
16 and in most cases he was usually en route to or coming back
17 from somewhere.
18 Mr. Johnston. Do you recall such a visit in December or
19 1963?
20 Mr. Halley. I can't pin it down to that timeframe. In
21 other words, my memory is McCone came to Miami several times.
22 Mr. Johnston. Well, let's put it in the timeframe of
23 short period after the assassination of President Kennedy.
24 Mr. Halley. I cannot put it into the timeframe, I just
25 can't. All I can tell you is McCone came down to Florida on

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

TOP SECRET

1 a number of occasions. You know, if you asked me what your
2 Impression, I don't know, maybe three, four.

3 Mr. Johnston, Do you recall anyone from headquarters
4 coming down to visit with you in December 1963? Again, this
5 is shortly after the assassination of President Kennedy.

6 Mr Halley. Do you have the chronology? Was Harvey
7 still --

8 Mr. Johnston. No, it was Fitzgerald.

9 Mr. Halley. Okay. No, I don't, because Harvey periodical
10 when he was in used to come down at the time of the Orange
11 Bowl game. I do remember going to or Orange Bowl game with
12 Harvey. 50 I would have to say no, I dont

13 But Look again --

14 Mr. Johnston. Well, let me just back up.

15 Do you know -- did you have any discussions with anyone
16 from the headquarters staff about the effect of the assassi
17 of President Kennedy on Cuban operations?

18 Mr. Halley. Well, it seems to me Logical that there may
19 have been some sort of discursion at that time, but I don't
20 recall it. You know, you have to get some in this kind of
21 text. It was a pretty scream of people siting from Washington
22 to stim. I came to Washington on a regular basis. There were
23 be times when I would come up onto every two weeks. There
24 would be times when I wouldn't be up here for six weeks, and
25 this was à very active period. I was working 14, 15, 16 in

TOP SECRET

NW#:55510 DocId: 32423435


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

TOP SECRET

1 a day, seven days a week, and a lot of this is a blur to me.

3 So when you say do you remember McCone coming, yes, I do remember that. Can you put it in a time frame of 7 to 8

5 December, no, I can't.

6 Mr. Johnston. Can you put it in the timeframe of shortly

7 after the assassination of the President?

8 Mr. Halley. I can. You know, you asked me, did anybody come down to visit you in the December timeframe. That's why

10 I asked youabout who was the chief because I do recall going to an Orange Bowl game with Harvey one year. Des came down,

12 Fitzgerald came down a couple of times, but I don't remember him ever coming in the Christmas timeframe, you know?

14 Mr. Johnston. Do you recall having discussions with --

15 and I take it your answer is yes -- do you recall discussion between you and someone from headquarters about the affect of

17 President Kennedy's assassination on the Cuban operation?

18 Mr. Halley. I am sure that there were such discussions

19 you know, where is the program going to go, how are we going to be tasked.

21 But if you think, whatever, where, Washington or

22 what, I couldn't whimper it up for you.

23 Mr. Johnston. Do you recall such a discussion with director McCone?

25 Mr. Halley. No, I don't.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Johnston. Do you recall such a discussion with

2 Mr. Helms?

3 Mr. Halley. No, I have to come back to the basic point.

4 I don't recall this kind of specific conversation with a

5 particular individual, but I am sure that these kinds of

6 conversations must have taken place with nomebody from Washing-

7 ton or when i was up here in Washington.

8 Mr. Johnston. Let me show you the cable that you looked

9 at previously before we went on the record, which is WAVE Cable

10 8130 of 24 dovember 1963, and the copy we have is barely

11 legible. The gist of that in the last numbered paragraph

12 reports information WAVE obtained on an individual named

13 Rodriguez in Dallas, and also, I think, reports, 15 you και

14 read through the poor Xeroxing, that Rodriguez was thought to

15 bo antiekennedy.

16 My question being, where would you have gotten that

17 kind of information?

18 (The Witness reads tho docmment.

19 Mr. Hallay... doll, to bà lonust with you, I can't load

20 the nosoje. It says read Paca 2. av

21 go up and took up who the man i Tite is one of Literally

22 thousands of cryptonyars across my deska

23 It looks tume like NOU L

24 Mr. Johnston. Les's yo ors the secord

25 (Discussion off the record.)

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

TOP SECRET

1.  Mr. Halley. HAVE traces, now, that indicates to me that whatever was done here was based on the material that was...

2.  passively in the files.

3.  Where did material that was in our files. We got material

4.  that was in these files from agents exporting, we got it from

5.  refugee debriefings, we got it from our, you know, from

6.  sources in the Cuban community who were reporting on Cuban

7.  groups. We got it on a monitoring of the Cuban press, and the

8.  Spanish press in Miami, we got it from monitoring radio broad-

9.  casts and so forth. so that it was this kind of a conglomerate

10. of information.

11. Now, let's take a name, you know, like Rodrigues. A

12. name Like Rodriguez in the card file, there might be two

13. names of Rodriguezes. You know, if you were looking for a

14. specific Rodriguez, Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, you know, sometim

15. like that, then you'd have to pin it down, in other words,

16. age, what his membership was in the party and things like that.

17. So that indicates to me that we found this material in the

18. file.

19. I no the source is, I don't know. We'd have to look in

20. the crypt and find the true name, and maybe even then I con't

21. tell you.

22. Mr. Johnston. But that source is liable to be a Cuban

23. exile in Miami, is that correct?

24. Mr. Halley, well, not being able to read the thing.

25. 
TOP SECRET

NW#:55510 DocId: 32423435


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

TOP SECRET

1 don't even want to speculate on it.

2 Mr. Johnston. Did you have sources in Alpha 66?

3 Mr. Halley. Yes, at times there were sources in Alpha 64.

4 Mr. Johnston. Did you have sources in SNFE?

5 Mr. Halley. At times, yes.

6 Mr. Johnston. Did you have sources, in the time period we are talking about, November '63 through the spring of 1964?

7 Mr. Halley. Well, I would have to say the probability

8 is high that we had some sort of a source in that group, but

9 I'd have to go back, you know, and check the record, and it

10 would have to be researched, but my recollection to that is y.

11 we would have sources in that group one way or another.

12 Mr. Johnston. Are you aware of a Cuban exile organiza-

13 of anti-Castro organization called the Christian Democratic

14 Movement, or MUC?

15 Mr. Halley. Yes, I am.

16 Mr. Johnston. Did you have sources in MOC?

17 Mr. Halley. Yes, we did.

18 Mr. Johnston. And in November of (75), do you recall

19 who was the leadership of MUC?

20 Mr. Halley. Off the top of my head, no, but you know

21 there is a book, we put out a book at that time which was a

22 front's work, of all of the anti-Castro groups that were

23 located in Miami, the IRS people are still with me. We work

24 privately. There were 250 some-odd exile groupings, and we

25 TOP SECRET

NW#:55510 DocId: 32423435


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

TOP SECRET

1 didn't have all 250 penetrated, if you really want to know the
2 answer to that. Well have to get the book, look up the dates,
3 and try to see who the leadership were.
4 Mr. Johnston. Does that book contain the names of the
5 leadership?
6 Mr. Halley. Yes. In most of the cases it contains the
7 names of the major leaders.
8 Mr. Johnston. Did you have that book at approximately the
9 timeperiod of November '63 through December '63?
10 Mr. Halley. The book was put out and revised several
11 times. I just have trouble coming into specific dates.
12 Mr. Johnston. I appreciate that fact. I understand it.
13 Mr. Halley. There is just a mass of information on these
14 things now coming out, and the only way I know to answer your
15 in a prudent manner is to say that there was such a group.
16 steer you to the information. You know, we can look it up
17 for you.
18 Mr. Johnston. Did you know who Dr. Portell-Villa was.
19
20 Mr. Halley. Portell-Villa or Portillo-Villa?
21 Mr. Johnston. Portillo-Villa.
22 Mr. Halley. Portell-Villa, OK, I see.
23 Mr. Johnston. as a source krypt of AMMI
24 and I will show you to different other Pontification WAVE Cable.
25 0455, 4/7/1963.

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

TOP SECRET

(The Witness reads the document.)

Mr. Malley. No, I don't. You know, the cryptonym AMKNOB rings a bell with me. I am familiar with the cryptonym. Specifically AMKNOB 1 is I can't tell you. Reading the contents of this message, you know, this is a message dated 4 December '63, I would say that we got a message in secret writing via the mail from some source in Cuba, and he is giving this information.

Who he is, what reliability we placed on a particular source --

Mr. Johnston. That's what I'm asking you.

Mr. Halley. What access he had and so forth, I would've told you. As'n have to, you know, get the file. I would love to read it and see what the file says.

Mr. Johnston. And in connection with the assassination, President Kennedy, when you get information like that, you viewed your responsibility as what?

Mr. Halley. Essentially putting it to headquarters. I was the focal point for pulling together all kinds of dur.

Mr. Johnston. And again the substance of this is a source in Cuba reporting to you on possibly seeing Oswald; possible Cuban insinuations.

Mr. Halley. Put in the deduction I come to by reason of their message. I don't want you to hold me to this, and you

TOP SECRET

NW#:55510 DocId: 32423435


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

TOP SECRET

will get the file and it says that this was an SW message
From a guy in Mexico or something. I'm just reading a message
and deductive analysis of what I know the case to have been
at the time.

Mr. Johnston. Well, that's a correct statement of the
message, is that right?

Mrs Hallay. Yes, I'd have to go on the basis that we
cecorded material accurately. Therefore, by the way this
message is written, by analysis I am having to conclude that
it was a source inside Cuba.

Mr. Johnston. Then I put be you in question in regards
previnus testimony about tapping inress in China, remember
Hero you were getting messages out of Cuba, you recall
action being taken through the WAVE Station to stop the

Mrs. Hallay. Now, with a message like this it is conce.
You'd have to look back at the files and where there are
sekliomel questions, you know, like we are these people,
You go eat the reporting that you are rocuiviig.
I don't start off the top of my head

Mr. Johnston. So you wish to go back to the files.

Mr. Johnston. Have you dates to November 1963. We got
with you for dates to November 1963. With me on
you have any recollection of either recording that I

TOP SECRET

NW#:55510
DocId: 32423435


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

TOP SECRET

1 or of receiving that information?

2 Mr. Halley. I would have to say because of the indicator

3 on here, the communication system was very reliable, that

4 this message was received, because that's what it shows, but I

5 personally have no recollection of this massage.

6 Mr. Johnston. Could WAVE have made a contribution to thit

7 report?

8 Mr. Halley, well, again, I have to go back in the f

9 It says the above is from a KMULSER diplomst. I assume

10 that that was from a Mexican diplomat. Tralia?

11 then that would determine whether we could have made

12 * contribution. There was a time when we in WAVE had as

13 recruited agentis Dexican and Italann diplomats in Havana.

14 That cryptonym doesn't ring any bells with me. Now you h.

15 to go back and lock Stop, look in the file, and that woul

16 tell you whether we were raming the joy or hot.

17 HE. Johnston. Is that the only evaluation you coulé

18 made?

19 thess I'd say that's

20 waly valakiti wa Chat these bus shero is one other

21 It might de

22 somet the monitoriications that we has

25 TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

NW#:55510 DocId:32423435

# TOP SECRET

1 Mr. Halley or what was the message, how was it sent,
2 what was the text of the message.

3 Senator Schweiker. What was your relationship with a
4 group called the Free Cuba Committee that I believe was organized
5 through the Mullen Company here in Washington?

6 Mr. Halley, Could you give me some additional information
7 Was this Bethel, Paul Bethel, the Free Cuba Committee?

8 Senator Schweiker. Well, again I believe Mrs. Luce
9 was involved with this Committee as well, and there were some
10 others.

11 Who is Paul Bethel?

12 Mr. Halley. Paul Bethel was an American who had been
13 employed by I know VERY sure in one of these Cuban --

14 Senator Schweiker. Well, I'm not sure. It might have
15 been. I don't have all the names.

16 Mr. Halley, well, the Free Cuba Committee, as such, with
17 something to do with it, couldn't strike a republican.

18 Senator Schweiker. Well, would they have any men there from
21 local police or another agency of organization from various

23 Mr. Halley I have to say the reason I kn


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

TOP SECRET

Senator Schweiker. And there were all kinds of Cuban

Committees

Mr. Halley. That's right, and therefore, unless there is a name that goes with it, I have trouble dredging it out.

Senator Schweiker. All right.

I means, did your work involve any working relationship to the Mullen Company in Washington?

Did you use them in any relationship at all?

Mr. Halley. No, my knowledge of the Mullen Company doesn't start until about 1972.

Lint.

Senator Schweiker. Okay, I'll let somebody else handle

How about the Fair Play for Cuba Committee? What about your program, what role of relationship forgetting overseas stuff?

Did you have with them since they obviously had some foreign intelligence relationship?

Mr. Halley. None. In other words we felt that that was an organization that really of interest to the Fair.

senator schweiker intelligence of that for some time. Like the one

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

TOP SECRET

American flight coming into the United States, and the refugees coming to identify agents on that, identify agents who might be trying to penetrate our paramilitary teams or one of our collection of operations.

We also were looking at Cuban intelligence officers who were stationed overseas, in other words, could our debriefing of knowledgeable people result in bar identifying, let's say, the OGI guy in Mexico City of in Madrid? We could then mount an operation on the basis of that to recruit him, to maintain him in place as a source within the Cuban intelligence service. So it was that kind of comtarintelligence approde.

You know, no the tead of the Cuban service, Barbare ja as the kit, you know people

him. we would look at that and see whether we could use it.

Senator Schweiker. I have just a few saali onnsu then I'd like to ask you for some advice off the record, wow you just give as sure quidanco.

On the record here, how about an organization calid CUBA, ComsOVALEVO, ... I believe the were an ar thu ting để ôch scretary aus.

Mr. Barley. hudoun

Senator Sensoker, een the sor de ot Lotts was called co

101141109, w that they wire, you now,

TOP SECRET

NW#:55510 DocId: 32423435


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

TOP SECRET

tied in to say the CIA.

No, that doesn't ring any bells with me.

Senator Schweiker. Then there is a Paul Holowell.

Mr. Halley. He's a --

Senator Schweiker. Florida banker. He was involved in paramilitary or some kind of operations.

Mr. Halley. Well, there were two phases. Paul Halowell was involved in the Bay of Pigs operation. In cleaning up some claims that the families of one or two of the pilots had who crashed involved in the Bay of Pigs. And I would have known that through the file.

Malowell later was in touch with us at the time when I was in this Miami station, and he provided, as I recall, he has real estate interests, banks, and he helped us create cover companies through which we bought or leased such things as dock space at marines for boats and items like that.

Senator Schweiker. Okay.

(b) You have anything else on the records?

Mr. Halley. Just one other thing.

How major a role did you have with lifetowell?

Did any personal contacts did you have with him?

Mr. Halley. My recollection would be that I probably only saw him once or twice, but you know, you know, you know, our major cover in those days was a corporate company. I was a vice president of

TOP SECRET

NW#:55510

DocId: 32423435


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

TOP SECRET

1 that company. As a result, I traveled extensively in the
2 business social community. At that point we had one of the
3 larger covert payrolle in South Miami, and I was a member os
4 a number of clubs, and people like Helowell I would meet
5 at pockeail parties s or din inners, you know, or the yacht club
6 that I belonged to or whatever, but officially, in terms of
7 business, sense, I only recall talking with helowell twice. I
8 think.

9 Senator Schweiker. Would he look anything: Jike that
10 picture?

11 (the witness looks at the sketch.)

12 Mr. Halley. No. At that time he would have been much
13 heavier.

14 Mr. Je'nston. Did you ever discuss sly Kennedy assassi-
15 nation with him?

16 Mr... Halley. No, I woulkin't have. I wouldn't h
17 about that. Ny recollection of the kind of things that
18 have talked about with helowell would have been the formatel
19 of such cover company, the purchase of is boat, the rental
20 tech leased you know beton pieces of acreage for trajning,
21 cause the bat's about what I roo

22 ac the t
23 I don't know. I guess I just have a little bit of
24 recollection of conversations.
25 with him. But you don't recall whether you talked

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

NW#:55510
DocId: 32423435

TOP SECRET

1 to McCone or Helms about a connection between the Kennedy
2 assassination and the Cuban operation.
3 Mr. Halley. Well, you know, some of those things make
4 different kinds of impact on you. I mean, helowell was in this
5 part of the county where we were located was an important
6 figure, we had a bank not too far from where we were located.
7 Many of our people did their banking with him, and so forth.
8 And he's a name that sticks out.
9 Mr. Johnston. I thought that Mr. Helms and Mr. McCone
10 would also make an impression.
11 Mr. Halley. Well, McCone. Yes, you know, I went to several
12 meetings with McCone in Washington and other places, and I
13 don't know this to be from Helms as a visit of the Director
14 to a state you know, but you don't necessarily recall that
15 Green Hotel paper it had lots of visits of stations
16 that I've been in from time to time, I've been involved in
17 Presidential visits and Vice Presidential visits, and you know
18 I can tell you when the President come to vietnam or somewhere

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

TOP SECRET

Mr. Halley. I don't recall it.

Mr. Johnston. Is it you don't recall such a discussion, having such a discussion, or you have a recollection and you recollection is there were no discussions.

Mr. Halley. No, I don't recall such a discussion. That's what I've said several times. I assume that such discussions took place, but Frankly, I don't recall them.

Senator Schwelker. All right, that's all we have. We appreciate your cooperation and your testimony. I do want to ask for some guidance off the record.

(Whereupon, at 1:40 o'clock p.m., the interview in the above-entitled matter was concluded.)

TOP SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)