157-10005-10141 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date:09/30/93
Page:1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA
RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10141
RECORDS SERIES :
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : COMMISSION ON CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE U.S.
FROM : BELIN, DAVID W.
TO : HARVEY, WILLIAM K.
TITLE :
LETTER/ENCLOSURES
DATE : 05/01/75
PAGES : 12
SUBJECTS :
TRANSCRIPT OF INTERVIEW WITH HARVEY, WILLIAM K.
INTERVIEW WITH REGARD TO ASSASSINATION ATTEMPTS
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :
BOX 435-3

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId:32202331 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

-2-

H:
Would you make that please -- Do you mind my interrupting?

B:
Sure - go ahead.

H:
Make that Soviet Intelligence Branch.

B:
-- and he was in charge of the Soviet Intelligence Branch of the Agency --

H:
--which is a lesser position than the other reads like.

B:
All right. He went to Berlin in the Fall of 1952 where he was Station Chief until 1959. He came back to Washington in the Fall of 1959 where he stayed until June of 1963, except for possible short periods of temporary duty --

H:
-- except for several periods of temporary duty.

B:
-- except for several periods of temporary duty abroad. He went to Rome in June 1963 where he was Station Chief until 1966. He came back to the Agency in Washington in 1966 and he retired from the Agency in 1967 on December 31. Now, Mr. Harvey, does that summarize basically part of your background, at least that we discussed?

H:
That is correct. I would like to add one thing, if I may. During both the Berlin and Rome periods and for a considerabl period of time in Washington after I returned from Berlin I was on the roles of the Foreign Service of State, which raises a little question of propriety. But I want you to know that in the handling of this.

B:
All right. I first asked you with regard to any knowledge of any assassination plans or plots within the Agency concerning Patrice Lumumba and you might indicate what your response was to that, Mr. Harvey.

H:
I have no personal knowledge of any such plan or operation within or on the part of the Agency.

B:
I also asked you apart from the question of Fidel Castro whether or not you had any knowledge of any assassination plans or plots in the Agency that involved any other foreign leader.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)