2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10138

RECORD SERIES: National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO: Dirnsa

TITLE:

DATE: 10/9/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/1963-10/14/63, CIA Reports. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SF1010 ..... 1963 OCT 9 15 33

00 ESF

DE ESI 09/1520Z OCT

O 091448Z ZYH

FM CIA

TO DIRNSA

STATE RCI (HUGHES)

JCS

CNO (OP922Y1)

AFSSO USAF

DIA/CIIC

NIC

DFI/ACSI

WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM

ZEM

SECRET NOFORN
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM NO SIDDEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

SUBJECT PLANS OF GOVERNMENT TO ASSASSINATE AMBASSADOR
: LODGE, OTHER HIGH EMBASSY OFFICIALS, AND THICH
TRI QUANG, AND BURN THE CHANCERY

DATE OF INFO. 8 OCTOBER 1963

PLACE & DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON (8OCTOBER 1963)

APPRISAL SEE BELOW

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/657,149

DATE DISTR. 9 OCTOBER 1963

PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

RIELD REPORT NO. FVS 9753

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A MEDIUM LEVEL GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL (C) WITH EXTENSIVE
CONTACTS AMONG GOVERNMENT LEADERS.

![list of names, Forrestal, Johnson, Klein, Komer, Parrott, Schlesinger, Press Office, File]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

ITS REPRESENTATIVES. STUDENT DEMONSTRATIONS, EITHER GVN-SPONSORED
OR INDEPENDENTLY ORGANIZED, MAY TAKE PLACE. THE OTHER ASPECTS
OF THIS REPORT ARE VIEWED WITH SKEPTICISM.

1. SUMMARY. ON 8 OCTOBER 1963 NGUYEN DUY BACH, CHIEF OF THE
   POLITICAL BUREAU, PRESIDENTIAL SECURITY SERVICE (SEPES), SAID THAT
   GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN) AUGHORITIES WERE PLANNING TO ALLOW A
   STUDENT DEMONSTRATION IN FRONT OF THE AMERICAN EMBASSY CHANCERY
   UNDER COVER OF WHICH ABOUT 100 GVN AGENTS WOULD ATTACK THE EMBASSY
   AND ASSASSINATE AMBASSADOR HENRY CABOT LODGE AND OTHER HIGH-RANKING
   EMBASSY OFFICIALS AFTER WHICH THE CHANCERY WOULD BE SET AFIRE.

2. ON 8 OCTOBER 1963 BACH SAID THAT EARLIER ON THE SAME DAY
   A DELEGATION OF STUDENTS HAD INFORMED HIM THAT THEY WERE ORGANIZING
   A DEMONSTRATION WHICH THEY HOPED WOULD TAKE PLACE IN FRONT OF THE
   AMERICAN EMBASSY CHANCERY WITHIN "THE NEXT FEW DAYS" DURING OFFICE
   HOURS AND PROBABLY IN THE MORNING. THE STUDENTS PLANNED TO PRESENT
   A STATEMENT TO AMBASSADOR LODGE PROTESTING THE REPRESSION OF
   STUDENTS AND OTHER YOUNG PEOPLE BY THE GVN. (FIELD COMMENT.
   FVS-9749, (NOT YET RECEIVED), FROM A FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE,
   REPORTED THE ARREST OF 130 SAIGON STUDENTS ON THE NIGHT OF 7 OCTOBER
   BY SPECIAL POLICE.) THE STUDENTS ALSO TOLD BACK (AND BACH SAID
   THAT HE HAD CONFIRMATION FROM OTHER UNIDENTIFIED SOURCES) THAT
   NGO DINH NHU, MINISTER OF CIVIC ACTION NGO TRONG HIEU, AND COMMANDER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

OF EMBASSY FOR POLITICAL AFFAIRS MELVIN L. MANFULL, AND SPECIAL
ASSISTANTS MESSRS. FREDERICK W. FLOTT AND JOHN M. DUNN, AS WELL
AS THICH TRI QUANG, BUDDHIST LEADER CURRENTLY LIVING IN THE CHANCERY.
THE GVN AGENTSWOULD THEN BURN THE CHANCERY.

3. BACH REMARKED THAT NORMALLY THE GUN PERMITTED NO DEMON-
   STRATIONS BUT, BECAUSE OF THE PLANNED INFILTRATION OF GVN AGENTS,
   THE. GUN WOULD ALLOW THIS PARTICULAR (PORTION GARBLED - BEING
   SERVICED) (X) DEMONSTRATION BUT THEY WERE CONFIDENT THAT THEY COULD
   CONTROL THE SITUATION.

4. (FIELD COMMENT. AN UNTESTED SOURCE REPORTED ON 8 OCTOBER
   THAT A NUMBER OF POLICE WERE GOING TO MASQUERADE AS STUDENTS
   AND DEMONSTRATE IN FRONT OF THE UNITED STATES INFORMATION SERVICE
   BUILDING.)

5. FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR LODGE), USMACV (GENERAL
   HARKINS), CINCPAC PACAF ARPAC PACFLT.

6. (X) HEADQUARTERS COMMENTAC MISSING PORTION WILL BE DIS-
   SEMINATED ONLY IF IT MATERIALLY AFFECTS THE SENSE OF THIS REPORT.

SCP-1
5000

> [Figure: A "SECRET NOFORN" stamp]

NNNN

> [Figure: A timestamp indicating the document was received on October 9, 1953, at 11:34.]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)