2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10037-10491
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Information Report Re: Appeal to President Kennedy
DATE: 1/24/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 195: Countries, Vietnam, General
11/13/61-11/31/61. Box 6.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794; the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA/SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/499,631

SUBJECT: APPEAL TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY BY SOUTH VIETNAMESE REBEL OFFICERS IN PHNOM PENH

DATE DISTR. 24 JANUARY 1962

DATE OF INFO: 20 JANUARY 1962

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

PLACE & DATE ACQ: CAMBODIA, PHNOM PENH (20 JANUARY 1962)

REFERENCES IN -15274

APPRAISAL 2

FIELD REPORT NO. FDP 1560

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE: APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE AN AMERICAN OBSERVER (B); FROM MAJOR PHAM VAN LIEU.

1. ON 20 JANUARY 1962 MAJOR PHAM VAN LIEU FORMER COMMANDER OF THE SOUTH VIETNAM (SVN) MARINE CORPS AND MEMBER OF A GROUP OF SVN REBEL OFFICERS IN PROTECTIVE CUSTORY BY THE CAMBODIAN GOVERNMENT, PRESENTED A PROPOSAL FROM HIS GROUP TO THE UNITED STATES EMBASSY IN PHNOM PENH ADDRESSED TO PRESIDENT KENNEDY WITH A COVER LETTER TO AMBASSADOR TRIMBLE. THIS PROPOSAL SIGNED BY THEIR LEADER COLONEL NGUYEN CHẢNH THAI AND OTHER OFFICERS IN THE GROUP, CONTAINED A LIST OF COMPLAINTS AGAINST THE DIEM GOVERNMENT'S CORRUPT AND INEFFICIENT METHODS OF OPPOSING THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS (VC). IT SUGGESTED THAT PRESIDENT KENNEDY REAPPRAISE THE US POLICY TOWARD THE DIEM GOVERNMENT AND UNSEAT AND REPLACE IT WITH A GOVERNMENT TRULY REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SVN PEOPLE. THE PROPOSAL WAS PRESENTED IN TWO COPIES, EACH ONE HAVING ONE ENGLISH, FRENCH AND A VIETNAMESE

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

[C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L] NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OO AID DI/ EXO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

TDCS-3/499,631

IN 15274
PAGE 2

LANGUAGE VERSION.

2. MAJOR LIEU TOLD AN EMBASSY OFFICER THAT "COMPETENT CAMBODIAN AUTHORITIES" WERE PLANNING TO RELEASE HIS GROUP FROM CUSTODY BY THE END OF JANUARY. HE SAID PRINCE SIHANOUK HAD APPROVED, AND THAT A CAMBODIAN GOVERNMENT SECURITY SERVICE WAS OBTAINING DOCUMENTATION FOR THE GROUP. WHEN ASKED WHAT THEIR PLANS WERE AFTER THEY WERE RELEASED, MAJOR LIEU SAID THAT THEY WERE STILL HOPING FOR ASYLUM IN THE UNITED STATES AND WOULD AT LEAST LIKE TO MAINTAIN CONTACT WITH US EMBASSY OFFICERS.

3 SINCE NOTHING COULD BE DONE TO REMEDY THE SITUATION IN SVN UNTIL DIEM WAS ELIMINATED, THEY WOULD FIGHT DIEM FIRST AND THE VC SECOND.

HEADQUARTERS COMMENT. SEE CS-3/486,609 AND FDP 1168/TDCS-3/473,682 IN WHICH MAJOR LIEU SAID THAT HIS GROUP WAS CONSIDERING JOINING THE SOUTH VIETNAM LIBERATION ORGANIZATION.

5 FIELD DISSEM: STATE, ARMY, CINCPAC, PACFLT, ARPAC, PACAF

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL-T-I-A-L NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)