# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10097

RECORD SERIES: National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE: Central Intelligence Agency Information Report

DATE: 4/25/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000΄

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

S. Vietnam

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Lows, Title 18. U.S.C Secs 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS-3/544,961

SUBJECT VIET CONG CONCENTRATION ON DATE DISTR. 25 APRIL 1963
TERRORIST AND MILITARY
SUBVERSION ACTIVITY IN THE
CAPITAL AREA

DATE OF EARLY APRIL 1963 PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
INFO.

PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (8 APRIL 1963) REFERENCES IN
DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL 3 FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-8792

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE AN OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM INTELLIGENCE SERVICE; FROM SOURCES DESCRIBED AS VIET CONG PENETRATIONS.

1. IN EARLY APRIL 1963, WARD-LEVEL OFFICIALS IN THE VIET CONG (VC) SAIGON-CHOLON-GIA DINH SPECIAL ZONE WERE INFORMED THAT TERRORIST AND MILITARY SUBVERSION ACTIVITY WOULD BE INCREASED. THE AREA TERRORIST ORGANIZATION WOULD OPERATE UNDER DISTRICT ORGANIZATIONS, WHEREAS PREVIOUSLY IT HAD BEEN DIRECTLY AND SOLELY RESPONSIBLE TO THE SPECIAL ZONE COMMITTEE. EVERY DISTRICT MUST DEVELOP ONE OR TWO TERRORIST GROUPS CONSISTING OF THREE CELLS EACH. OPERATIONS OF THESE GROUPS WOULD NOT BE LIMITED TO THEIR OWN DISTRICTS BUT COULD BE EXPANDED THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE ZONE, AS OPPORTUNITIES AROSE. AMERICANS. WERE TO BE THE PRIMARY TARGETS OF ALL OPERATIONS.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA. NIC A.ID USIA OC I ONE OCR ORR 081 00

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1Kb OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SANITIZED MK. 01.197.6.8.1 1/15

(15-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

IN
TDCS-3/544,961
PAGE TWO
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM

2. VC COUNTERPROPAGANDA PERSONNEL OF THE SAIGON-CHOLON-GIA DINH
   SPECIAL ZONE RECEIVED INSTRUCTIONS TO SUSPEND ALL ACTIVITY AND AWAIT
   TRANSFER ORDERS. THEY UNDERSTAND THAT MANY WOULD BE TRANSFERRED INTO
   MILITARY SUBVERSION ORGANIZATIONS IN THE AREA.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV AID MAAG
   USIA CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION 2ND AIR
   DIVISION.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)