2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10113

RECORD SERIES: National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE: CIA Information Telegram

DATE: 7/12/1963

PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# S. Vietman 50

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SEE SANITIZED VERSION
NLK-81-269; NLK-89-15+
DOWNGRADED

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sect. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM CONTROLS
NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY: SOUTH VIETNAM
REPORT NO.: TDCS DB-3/655,517

SUBJECT: COUP D'ETAT PLAN OF NGO DINH NHU
DATE DISTR.: 12 JULY 1963

DATE OF INFO.: 11-12 JULY 1963
REFERENCES BE CITED IN 78592

PLACE & DATE ACQ.: VIETNAM, SAIGON (12 JULY 1963)
FIELD REPORT NO.: FVS 9305

APPRAISAL: SEE BELOW

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A GENERAL OFFICER (B) WHO EITHER ATTENDED THE MEETING OR WHO ACQUIRED THE INFORMATION FROM AN OFFICER WHO ATTENDED THE MEETING.

APPRAISAL: NGO DINH NHU IS PROBABLY PLANNING A COUP. HOWEVER, THE TIMING OF THE COUP ATTEMPT AND THE GENERALS WHO ARE SPECIFICALLY INVOLVED ARE UNKNOWN.

SUMMARY: NGO DINH NHU PROPOSED TO ARMY (GENERAL) OFFICERS

ON 11 JULY 1963 THAT THEY STAGE A COUP D'ETAT AS SOON AS WED

POSSIBLE THIS COUP MUST BE STAGED OVERNIGHT AND THE ARMY SHOULD TURN OVER CONTROL TO CIVILIANS ON THE NEXT DAY.

ON 12 JULY 1963 NGO DINH NHU TOLD A GROUP OF GENERAL OFFICERS THAT THE GOVERNMENT WAS MAKING NO PROGRESS IN THE WAR AGAINST THE VIET CONG OR IN OTHER PROGRAMS AND THAT THE GENERAL OFFICERS MUST PROVIDE THE ACTION REQUIRED. THAT THE GENERAL OFFICERS HAVE BEEN CONTINUALLY HUMILIATED IN THE EYES OF THE PEOPLE AND IN ORDER TO REGAIN POPULAR RESPECT, THEY MUST ENGINEER A COUP D'ETAT.

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM CONTROLS
NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

GROUP 1: Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

STATE/INR: INDIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR UCS SECDEF INSA NIC

STATE/DIR:

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE TO: DIRNSA (PROD. NO.)
AFSSO WHITE HOUSE
STATE (RCI) (FOR HUGHES)
DIA/CTIC SIT ROOM
UCS
NIC
CNO (OP. 922 Y1)
DFI/ACSI

FORM 10-62 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION-CONTROLS

IN 78592

TDCSDB-3/655,517

PAGE 2

(When Pilled In)

NO-DISSEM ABROAD/BACKEROUND USE ONLY

NHU SAID THAT HE WOULD SUPPORT THE COUP IN RESPONSE TO A QUERY.

NHU SAID THAT THE GENERAL OFFICERS MUST SUPPORT HIM.

HAB BENHU SAID THAT HE WAS NOT IN ACCORD WITH THE PRESIDENTHO OR WITH THE ADMINISTRATION IN GENERAL: ALTHOUGH MANY PROBLEMS HAVE BEEN HANDED TO HIM, HE HAS HAD NO REAL POWER TO FORCESTHE PRESIDENT OR OTHERS TO MAKE DECISIONS OR TO TAKE NECESSARY ACTION ONLY WITHIN THE PAST YEAR, CINFACT, CHASCHE HAD I ANY OFFICIAL POSITION AS DIRECTOR OF THE STRATEGIC HAMLET I PROGRAM.

beat: GrNHU SAID THAT THE ARRIVAL COF A NEW U.S. VAMBASSADOR WOULD BRING ABOUT CHANGES LAND THAT FAST ACTION WAS INECESSARY; IMMEDIATE DECISIONS MUST BE REACHED. WANTHE CGOURDIS. OTO LOGOURME KTHIS WAS ETHE ONLY CHANCE FOR SUCCESS. THE ARMY MUST SEIZE THE TROUBLE MAKERS. FOR EXAMPLE, THE BUDDHIST MOVEMENTS MUST IILBER:QUELLED SIC NHUN QUALIFIED

UNION VI OFE TREK AND VILENGED THE HE HEELING

THIS STATEMENT BY ADDING THAT DOING ANTHAT HE DID NOT MEAN THE BUDDHISTS PER SE

BUT T-THE FIVE RINGLEADERS-WHO-WE-RE-TO-BLAME BECAUSE THEY HAD AUSED SVTHEIR RELIGION TO FURTHER THEIR OWN AMBITIONS AND DESIGNS.

05. NHU CONTINUED BY SAYING THAT THE COUP MUST BE STAGED OVERNIGHT; IT MUST BE LIGHTNING FAST AND PROBABLY ALL ICT THAT WOULD BE NEEDED WOULD BE A SHOW OF FORCE ON THE FOLLOWING DAY, THE GENERAL OFFICERS, MUST TURN THE GOVERNMENT OVERTOS CIVILIAN.

CONTROL IN RESPONSE TO A STATEMENT FROM MAJOR GENERAL NGUYEN NGOC LE CHIEF-OF-VETERANS AFFAIRS THAT SUCH AN ACTION REQUIRED

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKEROUND USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

IN 78592
PAGE 3

MAJOR DECISIONS AND A PLAN, NHU SAID THAT HE AND HIS WIFE AND THE GENERAL OFFICERS WOULD HAVE THE REQUIRED PLAN. NHU COMMENTED THAT HE REALIZED THAT HIS WIFE WAS NOT LIKED BY MANY PEOPLE BUT THAT SHE HAD TRIED TO HELP IN THE FIGHT FOR VIETNAM AND THAT SHE HERSELF REALIZED THAT SHE HAD MANY SHORTCOMINGS.

6. GENERAL LE THEN SAID TO NHU: "YOU SAY THAT YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THE GOVERNMENT BUT THE PEOPLE SAY THAT YOU ARE CONCERNED WITH ALL DECISIONS MADE". NHU REPEATED HIS COMMENTS ON LACK OF POWER, FAILURE TO HAVE HIS ADVICE ACCEPTED, AND HIS LACK OF OFFICIAL POSITION IN THE GOVERNMENT.

7. GENERAL LE COMMENTED ON 12 JULY THAT ALTHOUGH NHU MIGHT BE WILLING TO OVERTHROW THE DIEM GOVERNMENT, LE THOUGHT THAT THEY SHOULD PROCEED WITHOUT NHU, ADDING THAT ALL THAT THE ONHUS WANTED TO DO WAS TO SAVE THEMSELVES. (SOURCE COMMENT.) CHILDREN HAVE BEEN BROUGHT INTO SAIGON AND WERE UNDER HEAVY GUARD. THE NHUS ALSO HAVE AN ESCAPE PLAN.)

8. BRIGADIER GENERAL PHAM XUÂN CHIẾU SAID ON 12 JULY THAT ANY COUP D'ETAT ACTION MUST BE TAKEN IMMEDIATELY AND THAT GENERAL OFFICERS SHOULD COOPERATE.

9. COLONEL LE QUAN VIEN SAID ON 12 JULY THAT HE HAD NOT ATTENDED THE 11 JULY MEETING BUT WAS AWARE THAT SOMETHING WAS GOING ON, ADDING THAT NHU AGREED WITH DIEM THAT SOME CHANGES SHOULD BE MAD

SECRET

NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

(13)
50

TDCS DB-3/655,517 IN 78592
PAGE -4-

FLIENDED THE H YO MEETING. BE MADE BEFORE AMBASSADOR DESIGNATE LODGE ARRIVED; NHU; HOWEVER, WANTED TO GO FURTHER AND HAVE A COUP D'ETAT WITHOUT DELAY.

VIEN SAID THAT THE FOLLOWING GENERAL OFFICERS WERE LEADERS IN THE COUP PLANNING GROUP: BRIGADIER GENERAL TON THAT DINH, COMMANDING GENERAL, 111 CORPS; COLONEL HUYNH VAN CAO, COMMANDER, IV CORPS;

BRIGADIER GENERAL NGUYEN VAN LA, COMMANDER, CAPITAL AREA; AND BRIGADIER GENERAL: NGUYEN KHANH, COMMANDING GENERAL; 111 CORPS.

VIEN MENTIONED ANOTHER GROUP THAT WOULD SUPPORT A COUP PLACING VICE PRESIDENT THO IN TEMPORARY CONTROL AS INCLUDING MAJOR-GENERAL WLED.

DUONG, VAN MINH, MILITARY ADVISOR TO THE PRESIDENT; BRIGADIERHEA

GENERAL TRAN VAN DON, COMMANDER OF THE ARMY; AND TWO OTHERS.

10. FIELD DISSEM STATE (AMBASSADOR), USMACV (GENERAL HARKINS), CINCPAC ARPAC PACAF PACELT.

> [Figure: a blurry text showing a list of actions and responses]

END OF MESSAGE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)