2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10037-10493
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE: Information Report Re: Comments
DATE: 1/28/1962
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 195: Countries, Vietnam, General
11/13/61-11/31/61. Box 6.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains Information, affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws Title 18, U.S.C. Sect. 793. and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/500,097

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

SUBJECT COMMENTS OF TRAN. VAN LY ON THE DESIRABILITY DATE DISTR. 28 JANUARY 1962
PROBLEMS AND CONSEQUENCES OF A COUP D'ETAT

DATE OF
INFO. 25 JANUARY 1962

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON (26 JANUARY 1962

TAYLOR
KAYSEN
R. JOHNSON

REFERENCES

RETAIN OR DESTROY

APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NO: PF-VS-7006

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE AOVIETNAMESE NATIONAL ARMY OFFICER WORKING AT THE GENERAL STAFF HEADQUARTERS, FROM TRAN VAN LY.

ON 25 JANUARY 1962 TRAN VAN LY, OPPOSITION LEADER IMPRISONED FROM NOVEMBER 1960 TO FEBRUARY 1961 FOLLOWING STHECATTEMPTED COUP OF 1960, SAID THAT CERTAIN GENERAL OFFICERS HAVE CONSULTED WITH HIM ON THE POSSIBILITY OF ATTEMPTING A COUP D'ETAT (FIELD COMMENT. (TDCS-3/500,042) FVS-6999/BY THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED HIM AS POEHTINGAL ADVISOR TO GENERAL INGHIEME) ESUCHEA COUP WOULD BE TO PREVENT THE COUNTRY FROM FATEING TINTO THE HANDS OF THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTSA(VC) MIME. EYESAID THAT HE WAS IN AGREEMENT WITH THESED GENERALS IN PRINCIPLE ON THE NECESSITY FOR A COUP DIETAN, BUTEWAS WORRIED BOTH ABOUT THE METHOD TO BE EMPLOYED HAND THE CONSEQUENCESTO LY WASL AWARE THAT CUERPAIN POENT POLLAND RELIGICOSTGROUPS IWISHEDATOTISUUNTO THE

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROL
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OO DIA EXO
VTF

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

TDCS-3/500,097 IN 18750

PAGE 2

A COUP WITH THE SUPPORT OF MILITARY ELEMENTS. HOWEVER THESE GROUPS WERE TOO DIVIDED TO BE SUCCESSFULLY BELIEVED THE ONLY SUCCESSFUL COUP WOULD BE ONE MOUNTED BY THE ARMY ITSELF. (FIELD COMMENT)

TRAN VAN LY WAS A MEMBER OF THE "CARAVELLE" OPPOSITION GROUP. (cs-3/474,755)

ACCORDING TO THE SOURCE OF FVS-59087 HE WAS MOVING TOWARD A NEUTRALIST POSITION IN 1960 AND WAS DISAPPOINTED OVER CONTINUED SUPPORT TO DIÊM BY THE U.S. A BRITISH OFFICIAL SERVICE REPORTED

THAT WHEN HE WAS RELEASED FROM PRISON ON 8 FEBRUARY 1961, HE WAS FORCED TO SIGN A DECLARATION OF LOYALTY TO/DIÊM. SOUTH VIETNAMESE PRESIDENT

SPEAKING IN GENERAL TERMS LY SAID THAT IN SETTING UP SUCH A COUP TWO THINGS WERE IMPORTANT: TO AVOID BLOODSHED AND TO ORGANIZE AS SMALL A FORCE AS POSSIBLE IN ORDER NOT TO ALLOW THE

PLAN OF ACTION TO BE EXPLOITED BY THE VC. LY'S SOLUTION WOULD BE TO HAVE THE GENERAL OFFICERS DECLARE THE WHOLE OF SOUTH VIETNAM

TO BE IN A STATE OF SETGE. THE TROOPS WOULD THEN BE FORBIDDEN TO MOVE WITHOUT AN EXPRESS ORDER FROM THE REVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE AND ALL ROADS LEADING TO SAIGON WOULD BE RESGUARDED.

IN CASE THE COUP WERE SUCCESSFUL CREVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE OF THREE GENERAL OFFICERS WOULD DIRECT EVERYDAY GOVERNMENT, BUSINESS WITH THE HELP OF TECHNICAL ADVISORS AND ESPECIALLY THE SECRETARIES OF STATE WHO WOULD HAVE REMAINED AT THEIR POSTS DURING THIS PERIOD

THE PEOPLE WOULD BE ABLE TO CHOOSE THE HEAD-OF-THE-STATE.

# CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL                                        TDCS -3/500,097                                           IN 18750
PAGE 3
5. (FIELD COMMENT. LY TALKED TO SOURCE IN GENERAL TERMS. IT IS NOT KNOWN WHETHER THIS WAS BECAUSE OF RETICENCE ON LY'S PART IN RESPECT TO SOURCE, OR WHETHER LY IS NOT IN FACT INVOLVED IN THE ALLEGED PLANNING OF GENERAL NGHIEM.)

6. FIELD DISEM. STATE MAAG USOM CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF

CONFIDENTIAL                                                     END OF MESSAGE                                                 NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)