# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10131
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 9/19/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam,9/17/1963-9/21/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/656,739

SUBJECT : GENERAL NGUYEN KHANH PLANS TO MAKE HIS FINAL DECISION SOON ON ANY ACTION AGAINST THE DIEM REGIME

DATE OF INFO. 15-16 SEPTEMBER 1963

DATE DISTR. 19 SEPTEMBER 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES IN 22714

PLACE & DATE ACO. VIETNAM, SAIGON (16-17 SEPTEMBER 1963)

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-9660

APPRAISAL SEE BELOW

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A COMPANY-GRADE OFFICER (F) ON THE STAFF OF GENERAL NGUYEN KHANH.

APPR KHANH MAY STILL BE THINKING ABOUT ANTI-GOVERNMENT ACTION, BUT WITHOUT ASSURANCES FROM THE UNITED STATES OF SUPPORT, HE WILL PROBABLY NOT INITIATE ANY ACTION. NEVERTHELESS, THE POSSIBILITY OF HIS MOUNTING A COUP D'ETAT CANNOT BE COMPLETELY DISCOUNTED SINCE AN INDIVIDUAL CONNECTED WITH THE TRAN KIM TUYEN COUP GROUP HAS SAID THAT KHANH MIGHT TAKE ACTION AGAINST THE DIEM GOVERNMENT, AND SINCE KHANH'S NAME HAS BEEN MENTIONED AS ONE OF A NUMBER OF ALLEGEDLY DISSIDENT GENERALS.

1. ON 15 SEPTEMBER 1963 BRIGADIER GENERAL NGUYEN KHANH, 11 CORPS COMMANDER, SAID THAT HE WOULD DECIDE IN A DAY OR TWO

WHETHER OR NOT TO PROCEED WITH PLANNING ACTION AGAINST THE DIEM REGIME. (FIELD COMMENT. SEE FVS-9634, TDCSDB-3/656,637, FOR PREVIOUS REPORT ON KHANH'S PLANNING.) HE REMARKED THAT IF HIS DECISION WERE NEGATIVE, HE WOULD CEASE ALL PLANNING AND NOT REVIVE THE PROJECT. ON 16 SEPTEMBER KHANH SAID THAT HE HAD CHANGED HIS MIND AND WOULD MULL OVER THE SITUATION FOR ANOTHER WEEK BEFORE GIVING HIS FINAL DECISION. KHÁNH PLANNED TO RETURN TO THE 11: CORPS AREA ON 18

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY FAIRT 7JCSI SECDEF NSA NIC XAXXXXXX OC ZONE OCR XXXXXXXXXXXXXX

STATE/DIR

EXO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN)CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD TDCS DB-3/656,739
BACKGROUND-USE ONLY
IN 22714
PAGE 2

SEPTEMBER

2. FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR. LODGE) USMACV (GENERAL HARKINS) CINCPAC ARPAC PACAF. PACFLT

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL
(WHEN FILLED IN)CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
CONTINUATION OF TDCS. INFORMATION REPORT


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)