# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10087
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Vietnam Communist Activities
DATE: 8/23/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS: (
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 8/62. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FILE

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/520,365

SUBJECT VIETNAMESE COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN THE SAIGON AREA

DATE DISTR. 23 AUGUST 1962

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF INFO. JUNE-JULY 1962

RETAIN OR DESTROY

REFERENCES IN-SCHLESINGER

PLACE & DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON (2 AUGUST 1962)

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-7843

APPRAISAL 3

SOURCE AN OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM MILITARY SERVICE WHICH RECEIVED THE ITEMS SEPARATELY FROM OTHER OFFICIAL SERVICES.

1. DURING THE LATTER HALF OF JUNE 1962 MORE THAN FIVE HUNDRED UNARMED VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS (VC) ENTERED THE SAIGON AREA AND WERE LIVING IN THE HOMES OF FELLOW VC IN THE FOURTH AND EIGHT DISTRICTS OF SAIGON. (FIELD COMMENT. THE ULTIMATE SOURCE OF THIS INFORMATION MAY BE THE SAME AS THAT OF FVS-7681 (TDCS-3/517,156) WHICH REPORTED THAT BETWEEN THREE AND FIVE HUNDRED VC TERRORISTS AND SABOTAGE AGENTS HAD BEEN INFILTRATED INTO THE CAPITAL AREA.)

2. THE VC DISTRICT COMMITTEE FOR GO VAP (N 10-49, E 106-40) SENT AN ARMED PLATOON TO THE CITY TO OPERATE AS SPECIAL OPERATIONS CELLS.

3. A VC CADRE, AFTER TAKING A TRAINING COURSE IN LOC THUAN, TAY NINH PROVINCE, WAS SENT TO SAIGON TO SET UP A BASE AMONG LABORERS

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OO DIA EX AID

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS-3/520,365
IN 10297
PAGE 2

TO BE USED FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS.

4. FORTY VC GUERRILLAS BETWEEN 14 AND 16 YEARS OF AGE HAD COME TO SAIGON TO CONDUCT SABOTAGE AND KIDNAPPINGS OF GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM AND U.S. PERSONNEL.

5. AN UNCONFIRMED REPORT SAID THAT BRIGADIER GENERAL NGUYEN TRONG DINH HAD BEEN APPOINTED COMMANDER OF THE SOUTH VIETNAM LIBERATION ARMY IN ORDER TO LAUNCH A LARGE-SCALE ATTACK DURING THE VC FALL AND WINTER CAMPAIGN. (FIELD COMMENT. POSSIBLY MAJOR GENERAL NGUYEN TRONG VINH, DEPUTY OF NGHE AN PROVINCE TO THE SECOND NATIONAL ASSEMBLY OF THE PEOPLES GOVERNMENT OF NORTH VIETNAM, IS MEANT.)

6. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM
   CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE
CONFIDENTIAL
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)