# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10038-10032
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: DOS
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: Embtel 660 (Saigon) Re: Task Force on Vietnam
DATE: 11/16/1961
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: NSF: Countries: Vietnam, General, 11/16/61-11/17/61, box 195. Box 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# INCOMING TELEGRAM

## Department of State

SANITIZED VERSIO
NLX-75-92 3

SECRET

Control: 9439
Rec'd: NOV. 16, 1961 3:50 a.m. 019

43 Action

FE FROM: SAIGON

Info TO: Secretary of State

SS NO: 660, NOVEMBER 16, 11 AM
G
SP
L
H
SO ACTION DEPARTMENT: 660, INFORMATION CINCPAC POLAD 2683
EUR
AID
PX LIMIT DISTRIBUTION
IOP
INR TASK FORCE VN
CIA REF: EMBTEL 062725 0128T DECO
OSD
ARMY 1. OPPORTUNITIES FOR EXPLOITATION OF NEW MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL
AIR POLICE AND SECURITY SERVICEE (COLONEL NGUYEN VAN Y VICE GENERAL
NAVY NGUYEN VAN ELA) E FALBAINTOCTWO GENERAL FIELDS, INTELLIGENCE AND
A NATIONAL POLICE BOTH CAS CAND USOM HAVE FOR CONSIDERABLE TIME
DC BEEN STYMIED BUT WITH CHANGE BELIEVE REAL PROGRESS CAN BE
MADE. THIS WILL REQUIRE WORKING OUT OF DETAILED PROGRAMS FOR
ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE TRAINING, ETC., AND ADDITIONAL U.S.
RMR PERSONNEL FOR NECESSARY ELAISON AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT.

2. CAS HAS ALREADY PROPOSED TO ITS HEADQUARTERS DEVELOPMENT OF
   NATIONAL COMMUNIST PARTY. PENETRATION SERVICE TO SERVE AS
   "SPECIAL BRANCH" OF SURETE WHOSE CHARTER AT PRESENT COVERS
   BOTH SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES AND ORDINARY INVESTIGATIONS.
   THIS "SPEC EAL BRANCH" WOULD HAVE REPRESENTATIVES AT PROVINCE
   LEVELS AND BE MANAGED THROUGH REGIONAL DIRECTORATES. AT EACH
   REGIONAL DIRECTORATE, CAS WOULD PROPOSE ASSIGN AT LEAST ONE
   CAS OFFICER TO MAINTAIN CLOSE LIAISON AND COLLABORATION.
   CONCERT WOULD BE FULL INTEGRATION HIS EFFORT INTO
   VIETNAMESE EFFORT. THIS WOULD REQUIRE FOLLOWING CAS COMMITMENT:

A. CAS OFFICERS FOR DIRECTORATES AT HUE, NHA TRANG, BAN ME
THUỘT, BIEN HOA, SAIGON/CHOLON, AND CAN THO, AS WELL AS ALREADY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS
PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

3. 
-2-660, NOVEMBER 16, 11 AM, FROM SAIGON

EXISTING PERSONNEL FOR LIAISON AT NATIONAL LEVEL. PERSONNEL
WOULD BE SUPPORTED BY NECESSARY INTERPRETERS, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.

B. PROVISION OF INTELLIGENCE AND COMMUNIST PARTY PENETRATION
TRAINING TO VIETNAMESE OFFICER PERSONNEL OF NEW SPECIAL BRANCH,
TAKEN FROM EXPERIENCED SURETE OFFICERS

C. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO GIVE PROVINCIAL SPECIAL BRANCH
OFFICERS FUNDS TO OPERATE AGENT NETWORKS IN PROVINCES.

EXACT SUM NOT YET DETERMINED BUT WILL BE SEEN TO BE SUBSTANTIAL
BY MULTIPLYING NUMBER OF PROVINCES (38) BY REASONABLE MONTHLY
SUM: FOR EACH PROVINCIAL REPRESENTATIVE TO ENABLE HIM-HIRE
AGENTS AND PAY OTHER OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

3. USOM EQUALLY DETERMINED PROSECUTE POTENTIAL FOR GREATER
   COLLABORATION FOR DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL POLICE STRUCTURE WITH
   REGULAR INVESTIGATORY FUNCTIONS OF SURE TE, TO PROVIDELICE VID
   ENFORCEMENT MECHANISMPON EFFECTIVE NATIONAL BASIS TO BOLSTER BY
   GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY THROUGHOUT COUNTRY, AND THUS CONTRIBUTE
   TO CONTRBUTION CRIME DISORDER, OVERT COMMUNIST ACTION, ETC.
   THIS: WOULD COMPRISE OVER-ALL DEVELOPMENT USOM POLICE, SURETE AND
   RELATED INTERNAL SECURITY SERVICES TO INCLUDE:

A CONSOLIDATION OF CIVIL POLICE FUNCTIONS UNDER THE SECRETARY
OF STATE FOR: INTERIOR.

B. A: DELINEATION OF FUNCTIONS AS THEY PERTAIN TO THE SEPARATE
ELEMENTS OF PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES.

C. THE ADOPTION OF A REALISTIC TRAINING PROGRAM, GEARED
TO AN APPROPRIATE PROGRAM OF COMMODITY PROCUREMENT.

D. THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN EFFECTIVE PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICE.
USOM ENVISIONS DEVELOPMENT BASED UPON MUTUAL AGREEMENT AND
UPON RECIPIENTS'S ABILITY TO ABSORB INTRODUCTION OF NEW
CONCEPTS.

4. THIS BEING MADE TASK FORCE MATTER DUE MY CONVICTION IT IS
   SUBSTANTIAL WE MOVE FORWARD IN-BOTH--ABOVE-F-I E-LDS TO MAX-I MUM
   DEGREE POSSIBLE, TAKING FULL ADVANTAGE OF WHAT APPARENTLY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

-3- 660, NOVEMBER 16, 11 AM, FROM SAI GON

IS REAL NEW BREAK IN SITUATION. URGE FULLEST SUPPORT FROM TASK
FORCE LEVEL AND ABOVE OF THESE SUGGESTIONS FOR ACTIVITY BY
CAS AND USOM, AND SUPPORT IN WASHINGTON FOR NECESSARY PERSONNEL
AND BUDGET ADDITIONS WHICH MAY BE INVOLVED.

NOLTING

MM

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)