# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

## Agency Information

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER: 176-10011-10152

RECORD SERIES: NSF

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: WH

FROM:

TO: THE RECORD

TITLE: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

DATE: 06/08/1961

PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: UPON AGENCY REVIEW

COMMENTS: NSF:M&M:SPECIAL GROUP(CI) MEETINGS:6/61-10/62:BOX 319:PENDING NLK-92-104

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET - EYES ONLY

8 June 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of Special Group Meeting, 6 June 1961

PRESENT: Messrs. Bowles, Gilpatric, Bundy, Ralph Dungan, Dulles

Mr. Dungan, Special Assistant to the President, participated in the Special Group meeting for the first time.

## 1. Congo

Messrs. Bowles and Gilpatric agreed with the plan for the Congo. Mr. Bowles conditioned his approval on the acceptance of the three provisions set forth in the State Department internal memorandum dated 6 June 1961 (copy attached). Mr. Dulles indicated that these conditions were accepted by the Agency but he pointed out that the condition which prescribed the inclusion of Gizenga or his representative in the Leopoldville Government involved the danger of bringing in a representative of Moscow who would attempt to subvert and control the government. Mr. Bundy felt that he could not approve this program without reference to higher authority.

Note was made of the possibility that if Gizenga decided to participate in a new Leopoldville Government or Parliament, he had ample resources and a chance eventually to win control of the government.

## 2. Review of Political Action Projects

Mr. Bundy stated that because of the special sensitivity of programs involving covert support to political parties and leaders in friendly countries, higher authority wished to review them. Mr. Bundy proposed Thursday or Friday, June 15th or 16th, for this purpose.

Mr. Bowles suggested that we might ask to have a general policy enunciated regarding this subject. Other members of the Group

-SECRET-EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET - EYES ONLY

suggested that a general policy statement might not be sufficiently flexible to take care of special situations which might arise.

Mr. Dulles noted that the pertinent NSC paper authorized programs such as that under discussion, but emphasized that he would only undertake this type of activity if it was fully supported by the Department of State and higher authority. Ho stated that he fully appreciated the sensitivity of this type of activity. Mr. Dulles said, however, that he felt the Special Group should have come latitude to make decisions on these matters within the general policy which might be laid down by higher authority without referral of each specific case for approval.

Mr. Bundy stated that he would like Mr. Dungan to work with our people in the preparation of the briefing to be given higher authority next week.

## 3. Release Procedures - Francis Gary Powers

Because of the contingency nature of this proposal and because of the crowded agenda, discussion of this matter was deferred to the next meeting.

## 4. STPOLLY Flight, Vietnam

This flight was approved with Chinat personnel. There was some discussion as to the desirability of having South Vietnamese conduct these missions but it was pointed out that they did not have the competence.

## 5. Covert Annex, Vietnam

This annex was approved. It was noted that a progress report had just been received and it was suggested that this report be distributed to members of the Group.

## 6. Covert Annex, Korea

Mr. Bundy reiterated the decision that covert annexes should not be processed through the NSC machinery. Because of the interest of higher authority in political action operations in friendly areas (see Item 2) and since this annex was written in rather broad terms, he would like to check it further.

2

SECRET - EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET - EYES ONLY

## 7. TACKLE

Mr. Dollen stated thet while he wanted to open discussion ef this matter at this meeting, he did not expect a final decision to to made until the next meeting. Mr. Bandy noted the previous reserva- tions of the Date Department and the fact that this matter had been considered but not approved three times previously. Mr. Cilpatric supported the need for current Information which TACKLE would produce and suggested the possible use of U.S. personnel for the TACKLE mission. Mr. Dulles stated his opinion that the use of American personel would reise serious problems in the event of an accident. The use of well qualified Chinst crows, in his opinion, would mitigate the risko involved. It was agreed that the proposal would be resubmitted later.

## 8. Nicaragua

Mr. Dalles cutlined the nature and value of the equipment romeining at Puerto Cabozao and of the need for negotiating with Samoza to effect its recovery. He indicated that some quid pro quo weald probably be involved in achtoving an agreement with Somers. Mr. Bandy stated that this was a mattor that should be negotiated between the Agency and the Department of State and need not be again referred to the Special Group.

## 9. Cuba

Mr. Dalles stated that he wanted to raise in a general way at this meeting the problem of the Agency's relations with the exile groups, the payment to dependente of the strike force and the publications which the Agency has been supporting. He emphasized that there involved a considerable amount of mocoy and that the mattor should be resolved at an early date. It was agreed that the Agency should discuss this mettor with Deputy Assistant Secretary Morales-Cervica and subælt a formal proposal to to early meeting of the Special Group.

## 10. Minutes of Special Group Mectingo

Mr. Bundy requested that copics of the minutes of Special Group meetings be forwarded to members of the Group for approval and

SECRET - EVES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET - EYES ONL

retention. Mr. Gilpatric noted the very close relationship between
his office and the Agency and felt that bo could obtain all the
infermetion he needed without receiving a copy of the saloutes.
Mr. Dulles suggested that because of the sensitivity of these records
and because same of the references cantained therein involved the
use of pseudonyme, the need of the Group might be satisfied by
having copies of the minutes of each meeting made available at the
subsequent meeting for approval. Mesars. Bundy and Dangan agreed
to the submission of the minutes for approval at a subsequent meeting
but stated that they might have a need for a complete record immediatoly
at hand to answer any questions put to thers by higher authority.

THOMAS P. SCHREYER

SECRET - EYES ONLY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)