# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10085

RECORD SERIES: National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE: Vietnamese Communist Analysis of Efforts

DATE: 6/13/1962

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 6/62. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

RETAIN OR DESTR

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18 U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTRO

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS -3/513,760-

DATE DISTR. 13 JUNE 1962

SUBJECT VIETNAMESE COMMUNIST ANALYSIS OF EFFECTS OF INCREASED US MILITARY AID TO GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF 5 MAY 1962

INFO.

PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (20 MAY 1962)

REFERENCES

FILE

IN

SMITH BUNI
DUNGAN
GILDNER
KAYSEN
PETERSEN
SCHLESINGE
BELK
FORDDOTAT
KOMER
RASKIN
SAUNDERS

DATE ACO. IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THIS IS AN ACCURATE APPRAISAL TRANSLATION OF A GENUINE COMMUNIST DOCUMENT

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-7504-

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE AN OFFICIAL (C) IN THE MINISTRY OF NATIONAL DEFENSE, FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS HEAD OF AN INTELLIGENCE NET REPORTING DIRECTLY TO THE DEPUTY MINISTER OF NATIONAL DEFENSE.

Bundy

1. SET FORTH BELOW IS A TRANSLATION OF AN ANALYSIS OF THE PRESENT SITUATION IN SOUTH VIETNAM (SVN) AS VIEWED BY THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS (VC). THE AUTHOR OF THE ANALYSIS, WHICH WAS WRITTEN IN EARLY MAY 1962, IS A VC COMPANY COMMANDER IN BA XUYEN PROVINCE.

2. THE REVOLUTION IN SVN IS PASSING NOW INTO THE PREPARATORY PHASE FOR A GENERAL OFFENSIVE TO LIBERATE IT (SVN) AND SET UP A PEOPLE'S UNION DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT, BUT AMERICAN INTERVENTION HAS POSTPONED THAT PHASE. THE US' HALF SUCCESS IS DUE TO USE OF COUNTERGUERRILLA TACTICS, BUT MOPPING UP OPERATIONS WILL LEAD TO DEFEAT BECAUSE (INDISCRIMINATE) KILLINGS WILL PUSH THE PEOPLE TOWARD THE REVOLUTIONARY PARTY. IN THE FUTURE THE FRONT FOR THE LIBERATION OF SVN, WITH

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OO AID. DIA

VTF

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL IN TDCS-3/513,760 PAGE TWO

ITS HIGH-SACRIFICE SPIRIT AND ITS HATE-AMERICA IDEALS, WILL GET 90 PERCENT SUPPORT FROM THE PEOPLE. ON THE MILITARY SIDE THE US HAS USED ULTRA-MODERN MECHANIZED WEAPONS TO DESTROY ARMED UNITS BY TACTICS OF AREA PACIFICATION. THUS HARRASSED, THE VC ARE NEVER SECURE. THEIR POLICIES MUST NOW AIM AT THE INTERNAL SITUATION AND AT UPHOLDING THE HARDSHIP-BEARING SPIRIT. MEANWHILE, VC ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATIONS DO NOT YET EXIST, BUT THE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN INSPIRED BY THE REVOLUTIONARY SPIRIT OF THE PARTY. ECONOMICALLY, VC AGRARIAN REFORMS HAVE SOLVED THE LAND PROBLEM FOR THE PEASANTS AND NOW CONSTITUTE THE FOOD SOURCE FOR THE TROOPS AND CADRES. (SOURCE COMMENT. VC AGRARIAN REFORMS" REFER TO THE DE FACTO LAND EXPROPRIATIONS CONDUCTED BY THE VIET. MINH DURING THE 1945-54 WAR.). FOREST AND SEA RESOURCES ARE STILL SECONDARY AND BRING IN ONLY SOME SUPPORT IN THE FORM OF TAXES. THE VC ARE MEETING GREAT DIFFICULTIES AT THE PRESENT TIME, BUT THE SVN PROBLEM WILL BE SOLVED BY INTERNATIONAL POLITICS AND INTERNAL MILITARY MEASURES, I.E. STRONG ATTACKS. (SOURCE COMMENT. THE SOLUTION THROUGH "INTERNATIONAL POLITICS" REFERS TO THE BELIEF THAT, IF THE VC CAN MAINTAIN THE PRESENT RELATIVE STALEMATE LONG ENOUGH, THE US WILL TIRE OF THE STRUGGLE AND SEEK SOME KIND OF NEUTRALIST SOLUTION.)

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY. NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG AID CINCPAC PACAF

PACFLT ARPAC END OF MESSAGE

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS SEKAINOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)