# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10142
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CIA Information Report
DATE: 9/24/1963
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 9/22/63-10/6/63, CIA Reports. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

**SECRET**

(When Filled In)

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

NO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSEN ABROAD
BACKGROUND USE ONLY

SUBJECT HUYNH VAN LANG COUP MOVE TIMING

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/656,830

DATE DISTR. 24 SEPTEMBER 1963

PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

DATE OF 24 SEPTEMBER 1963

REFERENCES IN 25834

INFO.

PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (24 SEPTEMBER 1963)

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL SEE BELOW
FIELD REPORT NO. Fvs-9691

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A CLOSE ASSOCIATE (C) OF HUYNH VAN LANG, FROM LANG.

APPRAISAL: THERE HAVE BEEN MANY REPORTS INDICATING THAT A COUP IS BEING PLANNED AND SOME OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN AGREES WITH THAT IN OTHER REPORTS. CLAIMS OF SUPPORT INDICATED HEREIN CANNOT BE ACCURATELY APPRAISED AT THIS TIME, NOR CAN THE ACTUAL TIMING OF THE COUP.

1. SUMMARY. HUYNH VAN LANG, PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS AT SAIGON UNIVERSITY, SAID ON 24 AUGUST 1963 THAT HIS COUP GROUP WAS GOING TO LAUNCH A COUP BEFORE 5 OCTOBER AND PROBABLY ON 26 OR 28 SEPTEMBER BECAUSE TROOPS WILL BE IN SAIGON AT THAT TIME. THE REVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE NOW INCLUDES GENERALS TRAN THIEN KHIEM, CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE JOINT GENERAL STAFF, NGUYEN KHANH, COMMANDING GENERAL OF 11 CORPS, AND DUONG VAN MINH, MILITARY ADVISOR TO THE PRESIDENT. EVERY EFFORT IS BEING TAKEN TO REDUCE THE POSSIBILITY OF EXTENSIVE BLOODSHED. LANG CLAIMS TO HAVE. SIX DIVISIONS

**SECRET**

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSEN ABROAD
BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC

STATE/DIR

AID USIA OC I ONE OCR ORR EXO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

(15-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TDCS DB-3/656,830
IN 25834
PAGE 2

PLUS AIRBORNE, MARINE, AND ARMOR ELEMENTS READY TO PARTICIPATE IN
THE COUP. BRIGADIER GENERAL DO CAO TRI IS ALSO WORKING WITH THE
GROUP.

2. LANG MADE THE FOLLOWING COMMENTS ON THE STATUS OF THE COUP:

A. IT IS TO BE INITIATED BEFORE 5 OCTOBER, POSSIBLY ON 26
OR 28 SEPTEMBER. TROOPS WILL BE BROUGHT INTO SAIGON ON 26 SEPTEMBER
FOR THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY ELECTION. MILITARY UNITS WILL REHEARSE
ON 28 SEPTEMBER FOR THE 26 OCTOBER NATIONAL DAY PARADE, AND THESE
TROOPS WILL REMAIN UNTIL 5 OCTOBER. GENERAL KHIEM WAS TRYING TO
ARRANGE THAT HE TROOPS BROUGHT TO SAIGON WOULD BE THOSE WHO WOULD
SUPPORT A COUP.

B. NO COUP HAS BEEN INITIATED AS YET BECAUSE EVERY EFFORT
IS BEING TAKEN TO ENSURE THAT IT BE RELATIVELY BLOODLESS.
LONE ATTEMPT WAS CANCELLED AT THE POINT OF EXECUTION BECAUSE IT
WAS THOUGHT THAT FURTHER PREPARATION WOULD PREVENT BLOODSHED.

C. A MAJOR PROBLEM IS THE LACK OF SUITABLE EXPLOSIVES TO
BLAST A CONCRETE BUNKER WHERE PRESIDENT DIEM IS EXPECTED TO HIDE.
THE ONLY OPENING TO THE BUNKER, OTHER THAN A HEAVY DOOR, IS THE
VENTILATION SYSTEM AND THE COUP GROUP HESITATES TO USE FLAME
THROWERS OR POISON GAS BECAUSE THEY PREFER TO TAKE DIEM ALIVE.

D. THE REVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE NOW INCLUDES LANG AND GENERALS
KHIEM, KHANH, AND DUONG VAN MINH. GENERAL TRI HAS AGREED TO JOIN

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET
(When Filled In)

THE COUP ATTEMPT. COLONEL BUI DINH DAM, SEVENTH DIVISION COMMANDER,
IS BELIEVED READY TO SUPPORT THE COUP BUT HAD NOT BEEN CONTACTED.
COLONEL NGUYEN HUU HANH, CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE IV CORPS, WHO IS A
COUR GROUP MEMBER, BELIEVES THAT BRIGADIER GENERAL HUYNH VAN
CAOIV CORPS COMMANDER, WOULD SUPPORT THE COUP SUT OTHER GROUP
MEMBERS ARE NOT CONVINCED.

E. GENERAL KHIEM WILL COMMAND THE COUP FORCES. MAJOR LAM
TRANG THO, FORMER SECOND ARMOR SQUADRON COMMANDER AND NOW WITH THE
JOINT GENERAL STAFF, WILL COMMAND ARMOR UNITS, INCLUDING SOME ELEMENTS
OF 115 OLD SQUADRON PLUS THE FIRST TANK COMPANY AND THE FIFTH
MECHANIZED RIFLE COMPANY OF THE FIRST ARMOR SQUADRON.

F. THREE BATTALIONS OF THE AIRBORNE BRIGADE UNDER A MAJOR.
WILL. JOIN ARMOR UNITS IN THE SHOCK FORCE.

G. THE THIRD MARINE BATTALION UNDER CAPTAIN MAHVIET BANG
WILL SERVE AS A BLOCKING FORCE TO PREVENT REINFORCEMENT OF THE
PRESIDENTAL PALACE BY THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD.

H. LIEUTENANT COLONEL PHAM NGOC THAO, STRATEGIC HAMLET
INSPECTOR FOR 10 DINH NHU, WILL NOT COMMAND THE SHOCK TROOPS BUT
WILL HAVE AN IM ORTANT MILITARY FUNCTION DURING THE COUP.

I. LIEUTENANT COLONEL NGUYEN DINH PHAT, KIEN PHONG PROVINCE
CHIEF, WILL COME TO SAIGON AND ALSO HAVE AN IMPORTANT
ROLE.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
(When Filled In)

TDCSDB-3/656,830 IN 25834
PAGE 4

J. MAJOR NGUYEN VAN TU, COMMANDER OF THE EIGHTH REGIMENT, FIFTH DIVISION, WILL SUPPORT THE COUP WITH HIS FORCES. ALSO INVOLVED IS THE FIFTH RECONNAISSANCE COMPANY OF THE FIFTH DIVISION.

K. GENERAL KHANH WILL COMMAND SIX DIVISIONS, ASSISTED BY GENERAL TRI. THESE DIVISIONS INCLUDE THE FIRST, SECOND, TWENTY-SECOND, TWENTY-FIFTH, TWENTY-THIRD, AND THE NINTH. ACCORDING TO KHANH, COLONEL BUI DZINH, NINTH DIVISION COMMANBER, IS NOT IN AGREEMENT WITH HIM BUT WILL SUPPORT HIM IN THE COUP.

L. TIMING FOR THE COUP WILL PROBABLY BE 1000 HOURS, 1400 HOURS, OR Ø500 HOURS, SO THAT FAVORABLE UNITS OF THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD WILL BE ON DUTY. THESE HOURS ALSO FALL BETWEEN THE NORMAL HOURS FOR CHANGING THE GUARD.

M. ARRIVAL OF HIGH-LEVEL. UNITED STATES DEFENSE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS DISCOURAGED THE COUP GROUP WHICH IS RELUCTANT TO PROCEED WITH THEM PRESENT IN SAIGON. THE GROUP HAS EVEN SPECULATED THE ARRIVAL OF THESE INDIVIDUALS MIGHT SIGNIFY THAT THE UNITED STATES WAS PREPARING A COUP OF ITS OWN; ARTICLES IN THE VIETNAM PRESS WERE CITED AS EVIDENCE OF THIS POSSIBILITY.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR LODGE) USMACV (GENERAL HARKINS) CINCPAC PACAF ARPAC PACFLT.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)