176-10037-10454 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER: 176-10037-10454

RECORD SERIES: National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE: Information Report

DATE: 9/25/1962

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Countries, Vietnam, General 9/22/62- 9/27/62. Box 6.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting The National Dofense of the United States within the meaning Espionage Laws, Title 18. U.SC Secs 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited

**CONFIDENTIAL**
(When Filled In)

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM CHINA (TAIWAN) LAOS REPORT NO. TDCS-3/523,453

SUBJECT PROPOSED JOINT CHINESE NATIONALIST-
SOUTH VIETNAMESE INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS
IN LAOS DATE DISTR. 25 SEPTEMBER 1962

DATE OF
INFO. MID SEPTEMBER 1962

PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (21 SEPTEMBER 1962)
DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL 2 FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 7977-BELK

SOURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE
A HIGH-LEVEL MEMBER (B) OF THE CHINESE NATIONALIST DIPLOMATIC MISSION-JINISTEON,
WHO IS BELIEVED TO REPORT WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OR APPROVAL OF HIS GOVERNMENT.

i. IN MID-SEPTEMBER 1962, TRAN KIM TUYEN, CHIEF, PRESIDENTIAL SECURITY SERVICE, PROPOSED TO HUANG TIEN-MAI, CHIEF OF THE CHINESE NATIONALIST NATIONAL SECURITY BUREAU INTELLIGENCE STATION IN SAIGON, THAT SOUTH VIETNAM AND NATIONALIST CHINA CONDUCT JOINT INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS IN LAOS. TUYEN CLAIMED THAT THE DETERIORATING SITUATION IN LAOS, AND THE STRONG POSSIBILITY THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM WOULD BREAK RELATIONS WITH LAOS, NECESSITATED IMMEDIATE CONSIDERATION OF SUCH A PROPOSAL. TUYEN TOLD HUANG THAT HE ENVISIONED THE ESTABLISHMENT OF INTELLIGENCE STATIONS ON THE BORDER BETWEEN LAOS AND SOUTH VIETNAM, AS WELL AS IN LAOS, TO SUPPORT JOINT VIETNAMESE/ NATIONALIST CHINESE AGENT OPERATIONS.

**CONFIDENTIAL**

STATE INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OC.I ONE OCR ORR OB! 00 EXO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM
5-62 1 Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

# CONFIDENTIAL
NO FORE IGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/523,453 IN 28327

(When Filled In). PAGE 2

2. HUANG CONCURRED IN PRINCIPLE, BUT ADVISED TUYEN THAT HE
   HAD TO OBTAIN THE APPROVAL OF THE CHINESE NATIONALIST GOVERNMENT
   BEFORE ENTERING INTO DETAILED NEGOTIATIONS. ON 19 SEPTEMBER HUANG
   TELEGRAPHED HIS HEADQUARTERS IN TAIPEI, OUTLINING TUYEN'S PROPOSAL,
   AND REQUESTING EARLY APPROVAL.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACE USOM MAAG
   CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION.

![text that is unreadable]

# CONFIDENTIAL
END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROL'S
NO FORE IGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)