176-10036-10104 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10104
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: CIA Information Report
DATE: 6/19/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 6/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Sect 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS - 3/550,953

SUBJECT GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM WHITE PAPER ON THE BUDDHIST ISSUE AND AMERICAN PRESENCE AND POLICY IN SOUTH VIETNAM

DATE DISTR. 19 JUNE 1963

PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

DATE OF INFO. 12-17 JUNE 1963

REFERENCES IN 62883

PLACE & DATE ACO. VIETNAM, SAIGON (17 JUNE 1963)

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 9171

APPRAISAL 3

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A WESTERN BUSINESSMAN (B) WITH CONTACTS IN PRESS AND POLITICAL CIRCLES.

1. ON 17 JUNE 1963 GENE GREGORY OF THE TIMES OF VIETNAM SAID THAT HE HAD JUST RETUNED FROM DALAT WHERE HE HAD SPENT FIVE DAYS WORKING ON A WHITE PAPER SETTING FORTH THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM POSITON NOT ONLY ON THE BUDDHIST ISSUE BUT ALSO ON THE ENTIRE QUESTION OF AMERICAN PRESENCE AND POLICY IN SOUTH VIETNAM. GREGORY SAID THAT MADAME NGO DINH NHU HAD ASKED HIM TO PREPARE THE PAPER AND, IN FACT, HE LIVED IN THE NHU VILLA IN DALAT WHILE HE WORKED ON IT.

2. GREGORY SAID THAT ONE OF THE PRINCIPAL POINTS WHICH MADAME

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

SANITIZED MK. a.197.7.2.6

FORM 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS - 3/550,953
IN 62883
PAGE 2

NHU SUGGESTED BE INCLUDED IN THE PAPER WAS A COMPARISON OF SOUTH VIETNAM WITH THE UNITED STATES WHERE GANGSTERISM AND RACE RIOTS EXISTED, THE CONCLUSION BEING THAT THE DIEM REGIME WAS NOT REALLY TOO BAD AFTER ALL.

3. GREGORY STATED THAT THE WHITE PAPER CONSISTED OF OVER TWENTY PAGES, WAS NOT FOR LOCAL CONSUMPTION, BUT WILL BE DISTRIBUTED INTERNATIONALLY, DIRECTED PRIMARILY AT THE UNITED STATES BUT POSSIBLY ALSO FRANCE AND ENGLAND.

4. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM USIS 9TH FLD. STA. 2ND AIR DIV. CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)