176-10037-10460 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10037-10460
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : Task Force Status Report
DATE : 0/00/1963
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 332 R & S, Southeast Asia Task Force
Reports 4/11-6/13/63. Box 6.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

COPY 1 OF 10

# STATUS REPORT
OF THE
TASK FORCE SOUTHEAST ASIA

COVERT ANNEX - HIGHLIGHTS

## CAMBODIA

A CIA source in the Chinese Nationalist diplomatic mission in Saigon has reported GRC plans to assist dissident Cambodian leader Son Ngoc Thanh in a political action campaign against the Sihanouk government. The GRC is also exploring Thanh's capability for penetrating the Cambodian government and the feasibility of assassinating Sihanouk.

## NORTH VIETNAM

Over 700,000 CIA-designed leaflets were dropped into the Haiphong/Lay Kay areas in April. The objective of this operation, in addition to familiarizing the DRV population with the anti-communism symbol on the leaflets, is to create a diversion within North Vietnam proper which may dissipate DRV security strengths in response to psywar and deception activities, and thus lessen DRV capability for action in South Vietnam.

## SOUTH VIETNAM

A two-month Civic Action Ministry training course for 229 montagnard cadres was completed in April. The first priority of these graduates, in direct satisfaction of requirements levied by General Rosson during his visit, is formation of fixed teams for use at Special Forces camps. Included in the course were 45 Vietnamese civic action cadre, all tribal dialect speakers, who will serve as team chiefs.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)