# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10139
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: CIA Information Report
DATE: 10/15/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/1963-10/14/63, CIA
Reports. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person in prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS-3/562,014

SUBJECT RECOMMENDATION BY CABINET OFFICERS THAT DATE DISTR. 15 OCTOBER 1963
NHU BE MADE PRIME MINISTER

DATE OF EARLY OCTOBER 1963 PRECEDENCE ROUTINE
INFO.

PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (8 OCTOBER 1963) REFERENCES IN 39851
DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL SEE BELOW FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-9764

SOURCE A WESTERN BUSINESSMAN (B) WITH GOOD CONTACTS IN VIETNAMESE POLITICAL CIRCLES, FROM CUONG.

APPRAISAL: THE CABINET OFFICERS MAY HAVE MADE SUCH A RECOMMENDAT ION.

1. SUMMARY. ON 8 OCTOBER 1963 NGUYEN HOANG CUONG, EXECUTIVE SECRETARY OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL, SAID THAT ON 5 OCTOBER VICE PRESIDENT NGUYEN NGOC THO TOLD HIM THAT AT A MEETING OF CABINET OFFICERS IN EARLY OCTOBER IT WAS DECIDED TO RECOMMEND TO PRESIDENT DIEM THAT NGO DINH NHU BE APPOINTED PRIME MINISTER. CUONG SAID THAT THIS PROPOSAL WOULD REQUIRE A CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT WHICH WOULD BE VOTED BY THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY WITHOUT DIFFICULTY.

2. ON 5 OCTOBER VICE PRESIDENT THO TOLD CUONG THAT IN EARLY OCTOBER HE HAD CALLED A MEETING OF ALL CABINET MEMBERS TO

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 00 EXO
STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1KA OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS-3/562,014
IN 39851
PAGE2

DISCUSS THE STATUS OF NGO DINH NHU IN THE GOVERNMENT. THO SAID THAT THE CABINET DECIDED TO RECOMMEND TO PRESIDENT DIEM THAT NHU BE APPOINTED PRIME MINISTER, REASONING THAT IF THE PRESIDENT DID NOT INTEND TO REDUCE NHU'S INFLUENCE IN GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS, THE LATTER'S APPOINTMENT TO AN OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT POST WOULD AT LEAST MAKE HIM ACCOUNTABLE FOR HIS ACTIONS.

2. ON 8 OCTOBER CUONG SAID THAT IF THE PRESIDENT ACCEPTED THIS SUGGESTION, A CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT WOULD BE REQUIRED BUT THAT THIS WOULD POSE NO PROBLEM AS THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY WOULD VOTE THE CHANGE WITHOUT DIFFICULTY.

3: FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM USIS 9TH FLD STA 2ND AIR DIV. CINPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CON NUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)