# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10099
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: Central Intelligence Agency Information Report
DATE: 5/18/1963
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

*S. Vietnam*

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/547,646

SUBJECT APPREHENSIONS OF VIETNAMESE CONSUL GENERAL IN SINGAPORE REGARDING RECENT EVENTS IN VIETNAM

DATE DISTR. 18 MAY 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES IN 41548

DATE OF 17 MAY 1963
INFO.

PLACE & SINGAPORE (17 MAY 1963)
DATE ACQ.

FIELD REPORT NO. FSS 12881

APPRAISAL SEE BELOW

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE AN AMERICAN OBSERVER (B) FROM VIETNAMESE CONSUL GENERAL TRAN KIM PHUONG.
APPR: CONSUL GENERAL PHUONG HAS BEEN AN ARDENT AND DEVOTED SUPPORTER OF THE PRESIDENTAND OF NGO DINH NHUNS CAN LAO PARTY. HETSTA CATHOLIC AND A FRIEND AND SUPPORTER OF DR. TUYEN. THIS REPORT IS BELIEVED TO REFLECT ACCURATELY HIS VIEWS WHICH ARE FELT TO BE REASONABLY OBJECTIVE AS WELL AS SINCERE.

1. SUMMARY. VIETNAMESE CONSUL GENERAL TRAN KIM PHUONG CONSIDERS THAT THE COMBINATION OF THREE UNWISE POLITICAL ACTS IN THE PAST MONTH MAY ULTIMATELY PROVE FATAL TO THE REGIME OF PRESIDENT NGU DINH DIEM DESPITE ITS GAINS IN THE MILITARY STRUGGLE AGAINST THE VIET COMMUNISTS (VC). THESE THREE ACTS WERE: DISMISSAL OF HUYNH VAN LANG OF THE OFFICE OF EXCHANGES FROM HIS POSITION OF POWER IN THE SOUTHERN FACTION OF THE CAN LAO (REVOLUTIONARY WORKER'S) PARTY; THE DENIGRATION AND REMOVAL FROM POWER AND AUTHORITY OF DR. TRAN KIM TUYÊN, DIRECTOR OF SEPES;; AND MOST IMPORTANTLY, THE HUE INCIDENT ON BUDDHA'S BIRTHDAY 8 MAY IN WHICH BUDDHIST PARADERS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00 EXO
STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS -3/547,646
IN 41548
PAGE 2

WERE KILLED BY THE CIVIL GUARD. EACH OF THESE SEPARATE ACTS HAS
SERVED TO WEAKEN THE MOTIVATION OF DIFFERENT SEGMENTS OF VIETNAMESE
AND TO FURTHER NARROW, POSSIBLY TO A FATAL DEGREE, THE BASE OF
SUPPORT FOR THE REGIME.

2. CONSUL GENERAL PHUONG FEARED THAT TUYEN'S DISMISSAL IN
   PARTICULAR WOULD CAUSE CONSIDERABLE INSECURITY AMONG LOYAL SUPPORTERS
   AND PUBLIC SERVANTS OF THE REGIME WHO KNOW DR. TUYEN'S RECORD OF
   LOYAL SERVICE TO THE PRESIDENT AND ESPECIALLY TO HIS BROTHER, PRESI-
   DENTIAL COUNSELOR NGÔ DINH NHU. THESE OFFICIALS CAN CERTAINLY
   QUESTION WHETHER ANYONE'S POSITION IN THE REGIME IS SAFE IF TUYEN
   COULD FALL FROM FAVOR. PHUONG STATED THAT SEVERAL FRIENDS OF HIS
   WITH LONG RECORDS OF SERVICE TO THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (G.VN)
   AND TO THE PRESIDENTIAL FAMILY HAVE ALREADY WRITTEN TO HIM DESPONDENT-
   LY ALONG THESE LINES. TUYEN HAD A BAD REPUTATION WITH MANY
   OFFICERS IN THE VIETNAMESE ARMY AND BUREAUCRACY AS THE HATCHETMAN
   AND TROUBLESHOOTER FOR NGO DINH NHU BUT NO ONE DOUBTED HIS
   DEVOTION TO NHU. YET NHU HAS STRIPPED HIM OF ALL REAL AUTHORITY
   SUPPOSEDLY BECAUSE OF A SILLY WOMEN'S TIFF BETWEEN
   MADAME NHU AND MADAME TUYEN. ANY OBJECTIVE GVN OFFICIAL MIGHT
   QUESTION THE FRIVOLITY, INGRATITUDE AND LACK OF PERSPECTIVE OF A REGIME
   THAT ACTS THUS.

3. FURTHERMORE TUYEN WAS ONE OF THE FEW REMAINING GVN OFFICIALS
   IN HIGH POSITION RESPECTED BY OPPOSITION LEADERS AND VIETNAMESE

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
(When Filled In)
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS-3/547,646
IN 41548
PAGE
3

INTELLECTUALS PARTICULARLY THOSE FROM NORTH VIETNAM. THOSE WHO
DID NOT LIKE HIM AT LEAST TRUSTED HIS FAIRNESS AND BASIC EMPATHY
WHEREAS THEY NEITHER TRUSTED NOR LIKED NHU EVEN THOUGH NHU HIMSELF
WAS AN INTELLECTUAL.

4. WITHIN THE CAN LAO PARTY, WHICH IS STILL ONE OF THE SECRET
   MAINSPRINGS OF SUPPORT IN VIETNAM FOR THE PRESIDENT AND THE NGO
   FAMILY, THE PARALLEL REMOVAL FROM AUTHORITY OF HUYNH VAN LANG HAS
   OCCASIONED SIMILAR DOUBTS AMONG THE PARTY'S RANK -AND-FILE. AS IN
   TUYEN'S CASE, CAN LAO MEMBERS CAN QUESTION WHAT VALUE IS LOYALTY
   AND SERVICE IF A MAN LIKE LANG CAN LOSE HIS. POST.

5. THE EVEN MORE SERIOUS MISTAKE WHICH MAY NARROW THE BASE OF
   SUPPORT FOR THE GVN TO A FATAL DEGREE WAS THE SHOOTING OF BUDDHIST
   PARADERS AT HUE ON THE OCCASION OF BUDDHA'S BIRTHDAY. THE HUE
   REGIME OF CENTRAL VIETNAM COUNSELOR NGO DINH CAN HAS ALWAYS OPERATED
   LIKE AN AUTONOMOUS POLICE STATE AND HAS BEEN NOTORIOUS FOR ITS
   FAVORITISM TOWARD CATHOLICS, BELYING PRESIDENT DIEM'S
   EARLIER REPUTATION FOR RELIGIOUS TOLERANCE. MANY VIETNAMESE
   CATHOLICS FEAR THAT THE GVN'S INCREASING PRO-CATHOLIC BENT WILL BE
   HARMFUL TO THE CHURCH AS WELL AS TO THE REGIME. CERTAINLY THE
   STUPID SUPPRESSION OF BUDDHIST RELIGIOUS FLAGS AT HUE ON 8 MAY (ON
   PRETEXT THAT THEY MIGHT BE CONSTRUED AS CONNECTED TO VC COMMEMORATION
   OF THE DIEN BIEN PHU VICTORY)
   AND CONSEQUENT. FATALITIES WILL AROUSE THE ANTAGONISM OF PREDOMINANTLY,

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/547,646
IN 41548
PAGE 4

BUDDHIST VIETNAM AGAINST BOTH THE REGIME AND THE CATHOLICS.

6. FROM REPORTS REACHING HIM PHUONG FOUND IT PARTICULARLY
   SIGNIFICANT THAT WHEN CENTRAL VIETNAM AUTHORITIES ORDERED POLICE
   TO EXECUTE THE DIRECTIVE BANNING FLAGS, INITIALY THE POLICE MERELY
   RESTATED THE ORDER BUT WOULD NOT RIP DOWN ANY BUDDHIST FLAGS.
   FINALLY SEVERAL CATHOLIC POLICE DID SO, BUT SOME BUDDHIST POLICE-
   MEN REFUSED, SAYING THAT BUDDHIST FLAGS SHOULD BE PERMITTED JUST
   AS CATHOLIC FLAGS ARE FLOWN ON SAINTS DAYS. SUCH DEFIANCE OF ORDERS[^1]
   AT HUE IS QUITE RARE, PHUONG SAID.

7. THE CROWNING INSULT TO BUDDHISTS WHICH WILL FURTHER ENFLAME THEM
   AND ALSO REVIVE THE OUTCRY AGAINST NGO FAMILY RULE WAS
   THE NEWS OF HUE ARCHBISHOP NGO DINH THUC'S PLAN THAT THE PRESIDENT
   ASK BUDDHIST ASSOCIATIONS ELSEWHERE IN VIETNAM TO CONDEMN THE
   CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE AND DISORDER OF THE HUE BUDDHISTS. ARCHBISHOP
   THUC REPORTEDLY WENT TO SAIGON TO DEMAND. THIS. THE VC COULD NOT
   HAVE A BETTER PROPAGANDA WEAPON IF THEY HAD LAUNCHED THE IN-
   CIDENT AND DIRECTED THUC'S REACTION THEMSELVES.

8. BY SUCH ACTS THE REGIME IS DESTROYING CONFIDENCE AND LOYAL
   MOTIVATION OF PUBLIC SERVANTS, INTELLECTUALS, PARTY SUPPORTERS, AND
   THE MASS OF NON-CATHOLIC PEASANTRY IN ITS MOST CRUCIAL TIME.
   IF THIS CONTINUES ONLY SYCOPHANTS AND XENOPHOBES WILL
   PREDOMINATE IN THE GVN AND ITS RELATIONS WITH ITS PEOPLE, BUREAU-

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

[^1]: 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS-3/547,646
IN 41548
PAGE 5

CRACY, ARMY AND FRIENDLY ALLIES WILL DETERIORATE IN A WELTER OF
PETTY JEALOUSIES, FEUDS, AND PREJUDICES.

9. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (CONGEN ONLY) CINCPAC PACAF PACFLT ARPAC.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)