# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10149
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: CIA Information Report
DATE: 10/2/1963
PAGES : 6
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam,9/22/63-10/6/63, CIA
Reports. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Sect.. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any mannor to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
(When Filled In) KS [FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD]

BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/657,031

SUBJECT FURTHER PLANNING OF LANG COUP GROUP

DATE DISTR. 2 OCTOBER 1963

DATE OF 26-30 SEPTEMBER 1963
INFO.

PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

REFERENCES IN 31379

PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (30 SEPTEMBER 1963)
DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL SEE BELOW
FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 9725

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A CLOSE ASSOCIATE (C) OF LANG, FROM LANG.

APPR: LANG MAY BE MAKING COUP. PLANS AS REPORTEDBUT THE DEGREE TO WHICH OTHER IN-
DIVIDUALS NAMED MAY BE INVOLVED CANNOT BE JUDGED. GENERAL TY PROBABLY HAS SUPPORTED THE
GENERALS DEMANDS ON PRESIDENT DIEM. THE MEETING OF DIEM WITH THE TROOP COMMANDERS POS-
SIBLY TOOK PLACE AS REPORTED. LANG PROBABLY HOLDS THE VIEWS CITED.

1. SUMMARY. ON 30 SEPTEMBER 1963 HUYNH VAN LANG, PROFESSOR
   OF ECONOMICS AT SAIGON UNIVERSITY SAID THAT LIEUTENANT GENERAL
   L'E VAN TY CHIEE, JOINT GENERAL STAFF (JGS), HAD REINFORCED THE
   GENERALS DEMANDSFFOR GOVERNMENTAL REFORMS BUT THAT SOME
   GENERALS WERE CONVINCED THAT THE COUP SHOULD TAKE PLACE
   REGARDLESS OF WHETHER DIEM INITIATES REFORMS BRIGADIER GENERAL
   TRAN THIEN KHIEM, CHIEF OF STAFF, JGS, WASCOONCERNED ABOUT
   VIET CONG MILITARY ACTIVITY NEAR SAIGON. HE AND OTHER GENERALS
   WANTED TO BE ASSURED OF UNITED STATES SUPPORT IN THE EVENT THAT
   A COUP SUCCEEDED. COLONEL DO MAU, CHIEF, MILITARY SECURITY

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY CIB

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading, and declassification

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC XXXXXXXXXX OCI ONE OCR XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX EXO
STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM
10-62 1K: OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TDCS DB-3/657,031                                                                                                                                                                  IN 31375

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD                                                                                                                                         BACKGROUND USE ONLY                                                                                                                                PAGE 2

SERVICE, HAS ATTEMPTED TO INFLUENCE VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE (VNAF) OFFICERS TO ATTACK GIA LONG PALACE. THE COUP PLOTTERS WERE CONCERNED ABOUT PRESIDENT DIEM'S MEETINGS WITH ARMY OFFICERS DURING WHICH THE LATTER RECEIVED GIFTS OF MONEY. LANG'S PLAN FOR REORGANIZATION OF THE GOVERNMENT FOLLOWING THE COUP HAS BEEN ACCEPTED IN PRINCIPLE BY THE REVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE AND HE HAS STARTED SELECTING MEMBERS OF A SHADOW GOVERNMENT. LANG HAS ADVISED POSTPONING THE COUP UNTIL HIS GOVERNMENTAL PLANNING HAS BEEN COMPLETED.

2. LANG MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS ABOUT MILITARY DEVELOPMENTS:

A. LIEUTENANT GENERAL LE VAN TY, RECENTLY RETURNED FROM THE UNITED STATES, MET WITH OTHER GENERALS ON 26 OR 27 SEPTEMBER AND THEN SAW PRESIDENT DIEM TO URGE GOVERNMENTAL REFORMS, INCLUDING THE APPOINTMENT OF GENERALS TO THE MINISTRIES OF NATIONAL DEFENSE AND INTERIOR.

B. GENERAL KHIEM AND OTHER GENERALS WERE BECOMING CONVINCED THAT REFORMS ALONE WOULD NOT BE SUFFICIENT AND THAT THE ENTIRE NGO FAMILY HAD TO BE REMOVED FROM OFFICE.

C. KHIEM WAS CONCERNED ABOUT INCREASED VIET CONG (VC) MILITARY ACTIVITY NEAR SAIGON AND THE COUP PLOTTERS FEARED POSSIBLE VC EXPLOITATION OF AN ATTEMPTED COUP D'ETAT.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD                                                                                                                                         BACKGROUND USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

D. KHIEM AND OTHER GENERALS DID NOT WISH TO ATTEMPT A
COUP, UNTIL IT WAS DETERMINED THAT THE UNITED STATES WOULD
SUPPORT THEM IF THEIR COUP SUCCEEDED.

E. COLONEL DO MAU, WORKING THROUGH LIEUTENANT COLONELS
NGUYEN CAO KY, 1ST TRANSPORT GROUP COMMANDER AND DO KHAC MAI,
VNAF CHIEF OF STAFF, HAS INDEPENDENTLY ATTEMPTED TO INFLUENCE
VNAF OFFICERS TO MOUNT A COUP AND ATTACK GIA LONG PALACE.
LANG'S GROUP BELIEVED THAT MAU WAS TOO INDISCREET BUT PLANNED
TO CAPITALIZE ON THE SITUATION IF THE VNAF DID BEGIN A COUP.
(FIELD COMMENT. IT HAS BEEN REPORTED THAT MAI AND MAU WERE
DISAPPOINTED THAT NO ACTION HAS BEEN TAKEN AGAINST THE REGIME.)

F. GENERAL KHIEM CLAIMED THAT HELICOPTER UNITS WERE
INCLUDED IN THE LANG COUP GROUP.

G. PRESIDENT DIEM RECENTLY SUMMONED MILITARY OFFICERS,
WITH THE RANK OF CAPTAIN AND ABOVE, WHO COMMANDED TROOP UNITS IN
AND NEAR SAIGON AND GAVE THEM SUMS OF MONEY RANGING FROM
30,000 TO 100,000 PIASTERS. THE MONEY OSTENSIBLY WAS SEIZED
FROM THE VC. COLONEL NGUYEN VAN THIEN, VIETNAMESE ARMOR COMMANDER,
RECEIVED 100,000 PIASTERS, WHICH APPARENTLY HAS CAUSED HIM TO
RENEW HIS ALLEGIANCE TO DIEM. SOME JUNIOR OFFICERS COUNTED ON
TO SUPPORT THE COUP HAD BEEN IMPRESSED BY THEIR MEETING WITH THE
PRESIDENT, BUT OTHERS WERE NOT AND HAVE JOINED THE COUP GROUP.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET
(When Filled In) CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY TDCS DB-3/657,031 IN 313 PAGE 4

(FIELD COMMENT. SEE FVS 9712 (TPCS-3/560,375 ) FOR THAO'S STATEMENT T
THAT NHU HAD GIVEN LARGE SUMS OF MONEY TO MILITARY OFFICRS.)

H. DIEM HAS GIVEN LARGE SUMS OF MONEY TO COLONEL HUYNH
HUU HIEN, VNAF COMMANDER. ACCORIDNG TO GENERAL KHIEM, DIEM HAS
GIVEN HIEN ORDERS TO USE THE VNAF FOR COUNTERCOUP ACTION AND
FOR EVACUATION OF THE PRESIDENT IF NECESSARY.

1. DIEM OFFERED LIEUTENANT COLONEL PHAM NGOC THAO,
   INSPECTOR OF STRATEGIC HAMLETS, THE POSITION OF DIRECTOR
   GENERAL OF NATIONAL POLICE WHILE NHU OFFERED HIM COMMAND OF THE
   SPECIAL FORCES. THAO, HOWEVER, HAS NOT WAVERED IN HIS SUPPORT
   OF THE COUP.

3. LANG SAID THAT HE HAS URGED DELAY IN MOUNTING THE
   COUP UNTIL HE HAS COMPLETED HIS PLANS FOR THE NEW GOVERNMENT
   SO THAT THERE WOULD BE NO VOID FOR THE VC TO EXPLOIT. HE
   SAID THAT THE REVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE HAS ACCEPTED IN
   PRINCIPLE HIS IDEAS CONCERNING ORGANIZATION OF A NEW GOVERNMENT.

(FIELD COMMENT: IN LANG'S PROPOSED GOVERNMENT THE REVOLUT I ONARY
COMMITTEE WOULD REPLACE PRESIDENT DIEM. THE TERM MINISTER WOULD
BE USED INSTEAD OF COORDINATING SECRETARY OF STATE AND
MINISTER OF SECURITY AND MINISTER OF POLITICAL AFFAIRS WOULD
BE ADDED TO THE GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURE, WHICH WOULD NOT
DIFFER DRASTICALLY FROM THE PRESENT ONE.) LANG HAS SELECTED

# SECRET CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS NO FOREIGN DISSEMINO DISSEM ABROAD BACKGROUND USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:
BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCSDB-3/657,031
IN 31379
PAGE 5
(When Filled In) NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

THE FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS AS MEMBERS OF A SHADOW CABINET:

A. GENERAL KHIEM, MINISTER OF SECURITY

B. VO VAN HIEN, CURRENTLY A SAIGON LAWYER, MINISTER OF JUSTICE.

C. LANG, EITHER MINISTER OF ECONOMY OR DEPUTY MINISTER OF ECONOMY FOR FINANCE.

D. NGUYEN TON HOAN, PROMIENT OPPOSITION LEADER IN EXILE, MINISTER OF CULTURAL AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS.

E. NGUYEN THAI, OPPOSITION LEADER IN THE UNITED STATES, EITHER MINISTER OF POLITICAL AFFAIRS OR DEPUTY MINISTER OF POLITICAL AFFAIRS FOR CIVIC ACTION.

F. MAJOR GENERAL TRAN VAN MINH, DEPUTY MINISTER OF SECURITY FOR DEFENSE.

G. NGUYEN HUY NGHIA, GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN) AMBASSADOR TO TOKYO, DEPUTY MINISTER OF SECURITY FOR INTERIOR.

H. NGUYEN HUU CHAU, FORMER MINISTER OF INTERIOR UNDER DIEM CURRENTLY IN EXILE, DEPUTY MINISTER OF POLITICAL AFFAIRS FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS.

I. AU TRUONG THANH, PROFESSIONAL ECONOMIST, DEPUTY MINISTER OF ECONOMY FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS.

J. LIEUTENANT COLONEL PHAM NGOC THAO, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF NATIONAL POLICE.

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
BACKGROUND USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TDCS DB-3/657,031
BACKGROUND USE ONLY.

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD
(When Filled In)

IN 31379
PAGE 6

LANG. HAS CONTACTED ALL OF THE ABOVE EXCEPT NGHIA, CHAU AND HOA,
HE HAS SENT A CATHOLIC PRIEST TO PARIS TO CONTACT CHAU AND
WAS PLANNING TO CONTACT THE OTHERS EVENTUALLY.

4. LANG SAID THAT HE WAS STRONGLY OPPOSED TO THE
   INCLUSION OF TRAN KIM TUYEN, RECENTLY ASSIGNED AS GVN CONSUL
   GENERAL TO CAIRO, IN THE NEW GOVERNMENT. NEVERTHELESS, THAO
   HAS ASSURED TUYEN'S SUPPORTERS IN SAIGON THAT TUYEN WILL BE A
   MEMBER OF THE REVOLUTIONARY COMMITTEE IN ORDER TO ASSURE
   THEIR SUPPORT FOR THE COUP.

5. FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR LODGE) USMACV (GENERAL
   HARKINS) CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

BACKGROUND USE ONLY
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)