2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10078
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Opposition in Khanh Hoa Province
DATE: 9/13/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 9/62. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, USC, Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

RETAIN-OR-DESTROY

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/522,229

SUBJECT

1.  OPPOSITION IN KHANH HOA PROVINCE TO ARMING DATE DISTR. 13 SEPTEMBER 1962
    MOUNTAIN TRIBESMEN AND TO THE STRATEGIC
    HAMLET PROGRAM
2.  CONFLICT AMONG PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES

SMITH-BUNDY
DUNGAN
KAYSEN
INKILBOOF
PETERSEN
SCHLESINGER
TAYLOR

DATE OF INFO. LATE AUGUST 1962

PLACE & DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON (3 SEPTEMBER 1962)

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS: 7923

APPRAISAL 3

SOURCE A MEDIUM-LEVEL OFFICIAL (C) IN THE GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF VIETNAMESE LABOR (CVTC)

KLEIN
KOMER
RASKIN
SAUNDERS

1. ON 29 AUGUST 1962 BUI BO, GENERAL SECRETARY, KHANH HOA PROVINCE COUNCIL, GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF VIETNAMESE LABOR (CVTC), AND MEMBER OF THE PROVINCIAL COMMITTEE, REPORTED TO CVTC HEADQUARTERS THAT KHANH HOA PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES ARE STRONGLY OPPOSED TO THE AMERICAN POLICY OF ECONOMIC AID, TRAINING, AND ARMS FOR THE TRIBAL PEOPLE. THESE AUTHORITIES FEAR THAT THE TRIBESMEN MAY INDISCRIMATELY KILL INNOCENT VIETNAMESE, ESPECIALLY IN CASES WHERE THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS MINGLE WITH THE LOCAL POPULACE.

2. BO ALSO SAID THAT THE PEOPLE IN THE PROVINCE ARE OPPOSED TO THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM, BECAUSE THEY ARE REQUIRED TO

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION. CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP I Excluded fram automatic downgrading and declassification

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACS NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00 EXO

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
5-62


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
# CONFIDENTIAL
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS-3/522,229
IN 21488
PAGE 2

PROVIDE TOO MUCH WORK, MATERIAL, AND MONEY. THIS OPPOSITION HAS BECOME SO STRONG THAT PROVINCIAL AUTHORITIES HAVE ISSUED ORDERS FORBIDDING ADDITIONAL DEMANDS FOR LABOR, MATERIAL, OR CASH.

3. BO REPORTED CONFLICT BETWEEN COMPETING FACTIONS IN THE PROVINCE, WHICH THE PROVINCE CHIEF, MAJOR LE TAP, IS UNABLE TO HANDLE. THE DEPUTY PROVINCE CHIEF FOR SECURITY, BA (FNU), A CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF BRIGADIER GENERAL TON THAT DINH, COMMANDING GENERAL, 11 CORPS, IS MORE INFLUENTIAL THAN TAP. TRUONG DINH CAC, WHO HOLDS THE POSITION OF DEPUTY PROVINCE CHIEF FOR ECONOMIC MATTERS, A POSITION NOT NORMALLY FOUND IN PROVINCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, IS THE REAL POWER IN THE PROVINCE. CAC WAS ASSIGNED TO THE PROVINCE BY NGO DINH CAN, BROTHER OF PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM AND POLITICAL LEADER OF CENTRAL VIETNAM, FOR THE SPECIFIC PURPOSE OF BRINGING ALL MAJOR PROVINCIAL ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES UNDER THE CONTROL OF CAN AND HIS FACTION IN THE CAN LAO PARTY. BO DESCRIBED THE DEPUTY PROVINCE CHIEF FOR ADMINISTRATION, YANG (FNU), AS A GOOD MAN BUT COMPLETELY LACKING IN AUTHORITY.

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION.

# CONFIDENTIAL
END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)