# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10037-10453
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM:
TO :
TITLE: Information Report Re: Views
DATE: 8/14/1962
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Countries, Vietnam, General 8/1/62-
8/14/62. Box 6.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

_Vietnam_

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18 U.S.C. Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T TO THE CNOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY RETAIN OR DES

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/651;039

SUBJECT: VIEWS OF BRITISH AMBASSADOR TO SOUTH VIETNAM, H.A.F. HOHLER, ON A NEUTRALIST SOLUTION FOR SOUTH VIETNAM
DATE DISTR. 14 AUGUST 1962

INFO:
DUNGAN
PRECEDENCE ROUTINE KAYSEN

KILDUFF
DATE OF INFO. EARLY AUGUST 1962 REFERENCES 43629 ERSEN

SCHLESING
PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (7 AUGUST-1962)

TAYLOR
DATE ACQ.

BELK
APPRAISAL: SEE BELOW FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-7782

FORRESTA

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE AN INDEPENDENT VIETNAMESE JOURNALIST (C) WITH EXTENSIVE CONTACTS; FROM ANOTHER VIETNAMESE JOURNALIST.

APPRAISAL: ALTHOUGH IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THE STATEMENTS SET FORTH IN THE REPORT WERE MADE AS INDICATED, IT IS CONSIDERED DOUBTFUL THAT AMBASSADOR HOHLER ACTUALLY HOLDS THE VIEWS ATTRIBUTED TO HIM.

THE BRITISH AMBASSADOR TO SOUTH VIETNAM, H.A.F. HOHLER, TOLD A VIETNAMESE JOURNALIST ON 2 AUGUST 1962 THAT HE HAD BEEN READING SOME OF THE JOURNALIST'S ARTICLES

AND WAS PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN A LATE JUNE ARTICLE ON THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE VICHINESE COMMUNISTS AND THE SOVIETS OVER NORTH VIETNAM. AFTER DISCUSSING THESE DIFFERENCES AT LENGTH THE AMBASSADOR STATED HIS BELIEF THAT, A THIRD FORCE IN VIETNAM VIS NOT ONLY POSSIBLE, BUT ACTUALLY EXISTS; AND THAT SUCH A THIRD FORCE IN NORTH VIETNAM, COMBINED WITH NEUTRALIST ELEMENTS IN SOUTH VIETNAM, IS THE ONLY HOPE FOR VIETNAM.

HOHLER EMPHASIZED THAT THE ONLY SOLUTION FOR SOUTH VIETNAM VISA NEUTRALIST COALITION

SIMILAR TO OFFICER AT THE BRITISH EMBASSY IN SAIGON WHERE

5. THE CONVERSATION TOOK PLACE AT THE HOME OF BELEN BODERA

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR AID DIA EX

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

RECBEL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED-CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE
TDCS DB-3/651,039
IN 43629
PAGE 2

THAT WORKED OUT FOR LAOS. THE AMBASSADOR SAID THAT THE AMERICANS

ARE NOT TRAINED IN GUERILLA WARFARE AND CAN NOT WIN THE WAR AGAINST

THE VIETNAMESE COMMUNISTS (VG) IN SOUTH VIETNAM.

2. THE CONVERSATION TOOK PLACE AT THE HOME OF PETER ROBERTS

INFORMATION OFFICER AT THE BRITISH EMBASSY IN SAIGON, WHERE

JOURNALIST
ROBERTS ARRANGED A MEETING BETWEEN THE/AND AMBASSADOR HOHLER

JOURNALIST
THE HAS KNOWN ROBERTS FOR SOMETIME THROUGH PRESS CONFERENCES

AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS AMONG JOURNALISTS. THE WAS SURPRISED TO LEARNOSE

THAT ROBERTS THAD ARRANGED THEY MEETING AT THE REQUEST OF THE ONCE DA ATRI

AMBASSADOR WHO HADO EXPRESSED A DESIRE TO TALK WITH HIM:

JOURNALIST
VIZ VENETHER THE INOR ROBERTS HADI MUCH OPPORTUNITY TO STATE

JOURNALIST
THE IRVIEWS DURING THE CONVERSATION THE ASSURED THE AMBASSADOR

THAT, IF ARE FROM BEING NEUTRALISTE MINDED, HE FEARS NEUTRALISM FOR AERE

SOUTH VIETNAM MORE THAN ANY OTHER SOLUTION. SINCE HE BELIEVES

NEUTRALISM TOIBE: NO MORE THAN A MAJORISTEPATOWARD ULTIMATE TAKEOVER

AND CONTROL BY THE COMMUNISTS ROBERTS POINTEDLY DISAGREED IKON VIETKOSDA

WITH AMBASSADOR HOHLER'S STATEMENT THAT THERE IS NO CHANCE OF

WINNING THE WAR IN SOUTH VIETNAM, INDICATING THAT IT IS MUCH TOO

EARLY TO MAKE SUCH A BLUNT STATEMENT, ALLUDING TO THE HUGE EFFORT

UNDER WAY AND THE GAINS DALREADY APPARENT. ROBERTS DID SAY

HOWEVER THAT THE SURFACING OF THE OPERATIONS IN NORTH VIETNAM

NGHE AN AND HOA BINH SHOULD DEMONSTRATE TO THE
OF
AMERICANS AND TO THE GOVERNMENT/VIETNAM THE FUTILITY OF SUCH OPERATIONS

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET. NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

ROBERTS ALSO COMMENTED THAT HE WAS SURPRISED AT THE FAILURE OF THE VC TO REACT EARLIER IN THE PROPAGANDA FIELD TO OBVIOUSLY

EXPLOITABLE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM AND THE AMERICANS.

JOURNALIST
(SOURCE COMMENT) SAID THAT HE THINKS THE ARTICLE THAT CAUGHT THE INTEREST OF AMBASSADOR HOHLER/ ONE DATELINED SAIGON, 29 JUNE 1962,

APPEARING IN AN EARLY JULY ISSUE OF THE PHILIPPINE HERALD, ENTITLED "INTRA-PARTY RIFT IN RED NORTH VIETNAM - MOSCOW HAS AN EDGE ON PEIPING?".

JOURNALIST/SAID THAT HE BELIEVED THAT THE AMBASSADOR HAD READ OUT OF THE CONTEXT AND MISINTERPRETED VARIOUS STATEMENTS IN THE ARTICLE TO WHICH HE REFERRED,

JOURNALIST
WHICH LED HIM TO CONSIDER THE/A NEUTRALIST. THE STATEMENTS BELIEVED INVOLVED, WHICH APPEAR IN LAST PARAGRAPH OF THE ARTICLE, ARE AS FOLLOWS: "STUDENTS OF COMMUNIST NORTH VIETNAM HERE WERE OF AGREEMENT THAT THE REPORTED GAINS - AT LEAST FOR THE TIME BEING, THAT THE PRO-SOVIET GROUP WILL EXERT A TEMPERATE INFLUENCE ON THE COURSE OF EVENTS, UNLESS THE 'SCALES' ARE TURNED BY PEIPING IN FAVOR OF ITS PUPPETS AND IF THE FREE WORLD KNOWS HOW TO CASH IN ON THE 'RED' DISPUTE, THE CHANCES WERE NOT DISMISSED OF A LONGER TRUCE IN WEEL

SOLUTION TO EMBATTLED VIETNAM.

(FIELD COMMENT) IN A LATE JULY CONVERSATION WITH AN AMERICAN OBSERVER, THE COUNSELLOR OF THE BRITISH EMBASSY IN SAIGON CONT BURROWS, ATTACKED THE DIEM GOVERNMENT, STATING-THAT-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS: NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

TDCS DB-3/651,039 PAGE 4

THERE COULD BE 'NO HOPE' OF PROGRESS AGAINST THE VC UNLESS DIEM WERE REMOVED, IN CRITICIZING THE ILLIBERALITY OF THE DIEM REGIME', BURROWS APPLIED STANDARDS OF CRITICISM THAT EVEN THE MOST ADVANCED WESTERN DEMOCRACY WOULD FAIL TO MEET. DURING THE SAME CONVERSATION, COLONEL HENRY LEE, MILITARY ATTACHE TO THE BRITISH EMBASSY, EXPRESSED HIS OPINION THAT THE WAR AGAINST THE VC WAS NOT PROCEEDING FAVORABLY FROM THE WESTERN POINT OF VIEW. HE APPEARED CRITICAL OF DIEM AND SEEMED INCLINED TOWARD A MILITARY JUNTA, POSSIBLY UNDER INFLUENCE OF MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH.

6. (FIELD COMMENT: US AMBASSADOR TO SOUTH VIETNAM, FREDERICK E. NOLTING, COMMENTED ON 8 AUGUST THAT AMBASSADOR HOHLER HAS NEVER GIVEN THE SLIGHTEST INDICATION THAT HE HOLDS THE VIEWS ATTRIBUTED TO HIM IN THIS REPORT. ON 8 AUGUST, AMBASSADOR HOHLER TOOK A COMPLETELY CONTRARY LINE IN A DISCUSSION WITH AMBASSADOR NOLTING, EXPRESSING OPTIMISM REGARDING THE PROSPECTS OF THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM. AMBASSADOR NOLTING SAID THAT HE BELIEVED THAT THE INFORMATION SHOULD BE TREATED WITH GREAT RESERVE AND WITH THE POSSIBILITY IN MIND THAT IT MAY REPRESENT A DELIBERATE ATTEMPT TO CREATE MISTRUST BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND GREAT BRITAIN.)

7. (FIELD COMMENT: NGO DINH NHU, BROTHER AND POLITICAL ADVISOR OF PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM, TOLD AN AMERICAN OBSERVER

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS: NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET
(When Filled In)
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE. ONLY
TDCSDB-3/651,039
IN 43629
PAGE 5

ON 8 AUGUST THAT, WHILE HE CONSIDERS FRENCH POLICY BOTH IN PARIS AND IN SAIGON TO HAVE AS ITS. OBJECTIVE THE NEUTRALIZATION OF SOUTH VIETNAM AND SOUTHEAST ASIA, HE FEELS THAT THE BRITISH HAVE A CONTRARY POLICY MORE SIMILAR TO THAT OF THE US. NHU SAID THAT HE HAS HAD NO INDICATIONS THAT CAUSE HIM CONCERN WITH RESPECT TO THE BRITISH ROLE IN SOUTH VIETNAM, AND INITIATED THE COMMENT THAT AMBASSADOR HOHLER HAD SAID TO HIM RECENTLY THAT AN INTER-NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON SOUTH VIETNAM OR THE NEUTRALIZATION OF SOUTH VIETNAM WAS "UNTHINKABLE."

8. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (AMBASSADOR ONLY), CINCPAC PACFLT PACAF ARPAC.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION, CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE ONLY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)