# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10116
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 7/17/1963

PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sect 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation, of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY: SOUTH VIETNAM
REPORT NO. TDCS -3/553,724

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE CHANGE IN GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM FOREIGN POLICY IN LIGHT OF APPOINTMENT OF AMBASSADOR LODGE
DATE DISTR. 17 JULY 1963

DATE OF INFO.: MID-JULY 1963
PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE

PLACE & DATE ACQ.: VIETNAM, SAIGON (15 JULY 1963)
REFERENCES: IN 80437

APPRAISAL: SEE BELOW
FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-9314
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A HIGH-LEVEL VIETNAMESE SECURITY OFFICIAL (C) WITH EXTENSIVE CONTACTS AMONG GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.

APPR: IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM HAS RECALLED SOME OF ITS FOREIGN REPRESENTATIVES; HOWEVER, WHETHER THE REASON IS TO DEFINE A NEW FOREIGN POLICY IN LIGHT OF AMBASSADOR LODGE'S APPOINTMENT IS UNKNOWN. SEE HEADQUARTERS COMMENT, PARAGRAPH 2

MID-JULY 1963 PRESIDENT NGO DINH DIEM WAS CONSIDERABLY DISTURBED OVER THE DESIGNATION OF HENRY CABOT LODGE, JR. AS AMBASSADOR TO THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN): THE APPOINTMENT SUGGESTED TO THE PRESIDENT THAT THE UNITED STATES PLANNED TO WIELD A "BIG STICK," AND THE GVN RECALLED A NUMBER OF ITS DIPLOMATS FOR CONSULTATION. AMONG THEM WERE THE REPRESENTATIVES IN KUALA LUMPUR AND SINGAPORE, NEW DELHI, DJAKARTA, TOKYO, RANGOON, AND SENEGAL AND SEVERAL OTHER AFRICAN NATIONS. THE REPRESENTATIVES WERE RECALLED OSTENSIBLY SO THAT THEY COULD ATTEND A SEMINAR ON THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM WHICH WOULD ENABLE THEM TO EXPLAIN THE PROGRAM ABROAD; HOWEVER, THE GVN ACTUALLY

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM TDCS-3/553,724 IN 80437
PAGE TWO

WANTED TO DISCUSS ITS POSITION IN REGARD TO THE BUDDHIST SITUATION AND TO
ATTEMPT TO DEFINE A NEW GVN FOREIGN POLICY IN THE LIGHT OF THE LODGE
APPOINTMENT

## HEADQUARTERS COMMENT
TDCS-3/552,830 REPORTED THAT BUU HOI, GVN
AMBASSADOR TO THE IVORY COAST, MOROCCO, NIGERIA, UPPER VOLTA, AND SENEGAL
WAS EXPECTED IN SAIGON ON 15 JULY. CS-3/533,307 REPORTED THAT NGO DINH NHU
HAD STATED AT AN INTERMINISTERIAL COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS' MEETING
THAT THE MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS HAD FAILED TO ENROLL HIS PERSONNEL IN
THE COURSE AT THE THI NGHE STRATEGIC HAMLET CENTER, AND THAT IF NECESSARY,
THE MINISTER SHOULD RECALL HIS PERSONNEL FROM EMBASSIES ABROAD IN ORDER TO
MEET THIS REQUIREMENT.

3. FIELD DISSEM STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG AID USIA
   2ND AIR DIVISION 9TH FIELD STATION CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF

COABGINEBAL CALUCEVIV END OF MESSAGE (c) MIJI EXВТЕГСІС СОЛМОбе УбИС

VELEKENCER
VELIGIDEH C AGENTOS FODCE
ARENW ECBЕТСЯ БОГICK В ГІСНІ СЕ
30гэтага СRYWCE IN COAFYFEL 0

МЕУСАИД 10C2 -322315

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CENLEVT HAITFIORACE VACHCA


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)