176-10037-10440 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10037-10440
RECORD SERIES: Personal Papers of Richard Goodwin
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Information Report Re:
DATE: 9/3/1961
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Goodwin Papers: Cuba, Meetings on Refugees, Box 4. Box 7.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains Information affecting the National Defense: of the United States, within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law..

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

SECRET

(When Filled In)

COUNTRY BRAZIL CHINA CUBA

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/485,732

SUBJECT OFFER OF SUPPLIES AND MEN TO THE GOVERNOR OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL BY THE GOVERNMENTS OF COMMUNIST CHINA AND CUBA

DATE DISTR. 3 SEPTEMBER 1961

PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

DATE OF INFO. WEEKCOF 27 AUGUST 1961

REFERENCES IN 23204

PLACE & DATE ACQ. BRAZIL, RIO DE JANEIRO (2 SEPTEMBER 1961)

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO. HBR 2529

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS: ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A BRAZILIAN PROFESSOR (C) WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG COMMUNIST STUDENT LEADERS.

1. DURING THE WEEK OF 27 AUGUST PARTY CHAIRMAN MAO TSE TUNG OF COMMUNIST CHINA AND PREMIER FIDEL CASTRO OF CUBA BOTH OFFERED MATERIAL SUPPORT, INCLUDING QUOTE VOLUNTEERS UNQUOTE, TO LEONEL BRIZOLA, GOVERNOR OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL, WHO WAS LEADING THE STRUGGLE IN BRAZIL TO ASSURE THE SUCCESSION TO THE PRESIDENCY OF VICE PRESIDENT JOAO GOULART UPON THE RESIGNATION OF PRESIDENT JANIO QUADROS.

BRIZOLA DID NOT ACCEPT THE OFFER, ALTHOUGH HE APPRECIATED THE MORAL SUPPORT, BECAUSE HE DID NOT WISH TO QUOTE CREATE AN INTERNAT-IONAL AFFAIR UNQUOTE OF BRAZIL'S POLITICAL CRISIS. (FIELD COMMENT:

BRIZOLA OBVIOUSLY WAS AFRAID THAT IF THE OFFERS WERE ACCEPTED: THE UNITED STATES MIGHT INTERVENE. THE OFFER OF AID BY CASTRO LEAKED

SECRET

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC: USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OO EXO FBI I&NS TREASURY

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL TDCS-3/485,732
IN 23204
PAGE 2
TO THE PRESS; THAT OF MAO DID NOT)。

2.  FIELD DISSEM: STATE, FBI, ARMY, NAVY, AIR, CINCARIB. CINCLANT

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)