# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10094
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: Ngo Dinh Nhu's Statement on Withdrawal of
DATE: 4/20/1963
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited. by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/544,531

SUBJECT NGO DINH NHƯ'S STATEMENTS ON WITHDRAWAL
OF AMERICAN AID

DATE DISTR. 20 APRIL 1963

DATE OF INFO. LATE MARCH-EARLY APRIL 1963.

PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

PLACE & DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON (1 AND 12 APRIL 1963)

REFERENCES IN 21850

APPRAISAL SEE PARAGRAPH 7

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 8804

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE... APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE PARAS 1 & 3: AMEDIUM LEVEL OFFICIAL (C) OF THE MINISTRY OF NATIONAL DEFENSE.
PARAS 2 &4: A FIELD GRADE OFFICER (F) OF THE VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE.

1. AT THE 5 APRIL MEETING OF THE INTERMINISTERIAL COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS, NGO DINH NHU MADE THE FOLLOWING REMARKS CONCERNING AMERICAN FOREIGN AID:

A. THE AMERICANS HAVE STATED THAT THEY ARE GOING TO REVISE THEIR POLICY ON FOREIGN AID TO SOUTH VIETNAM; WE WILL REVISE OUR POLICY ON RECEIVING SUCH AID. WE MUST MARCH TOWARD THE ULTIMATE OBJECTIVE OF TERMINATING AMERICAN AID AND THE PEOPLE SHOULD LEARN TO DO WITHOUT SUCH ASSISTANCE.

B. AMERICAN AID SHOULD BE PLACED IN THE FOLLOWING CATE-

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OC I ONE OCR ORR 081 .00 EXO

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
(15-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -3/544,531

IN 21850
PAGE 2

GORIES OF PRIORITY. FIRST, AID WHICH WE MUST CONTINUE TO RECEIVE
INDEFINITELY, SPECIFICALLY THE MEANS OF PRODUCTION; WE WILL NOT SEEK
A REDUCTION IN THIS CATEGORY, NOR WILL WE REQUEST AN INCREASE. SECOND
AID WHICH CAN BE EVENTUALLY PHASED OUT. THIRD, AID WHICH CAN BE
TEMINATED IMMEDIATELY.

C. ALL SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED ON THE ABOVE LIST OF
PRIORITIES BUT IT SHOULD ALSO BE MADE CLEAR THAT THIS. POLICY IS NOT
INTENDED TO BE ANTIFOREIGN. FOREIGN AID WILL PROVIDE WITH THE MEANS
OF PRODUCTION SO THAT WE CAN EVENTUALLY DO WITHOUT CONSUMER GOODS
ASSISTANCE. WHETHER WE LIKE IT OR NOT, FOREIGN AID WILL CEASE
SOONER OR LATER, AND SO WE MUST STRIVE TO BECOME SELF-SUFFICIENT.
MEANWHILE WE MUST MAKE PROPER USE OF THE AID WE RECEIVE.

2. DURING THE LAST WEEK OF MARCH 1963 THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR ON
   ORDERS FROM NHU, ISSUED TO ALL PROVINCE CHIEFS INSTRUCTIONS TO
   ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO START PRODUCING WEAPONS, LAND MINES AND AMMUNITION
   IN HOME WORK SHOPS WITH THE AIM OF ATTAINING A DEGREE OF SELF-SUFFICIENCY.

3. ON ABOUT 5 APRIL PHAM DUC TIEN, CHIEF OF CIVIC ACTION IN PHUỌC
   TUY PROVINCE, ATTENDED A CONFERENCE ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS IN BINH TUY
   PROVINCE AT WHICH NGO DINH NHU SAID THAT THERE WERE TOO MANY AMERICAN
   ADVISORS IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND THAT BOTH THE NUMBER OF THESE ADVISORS
   AND THE AMOUNT OF AMERICAN AID SHOULD BE REDUCED.

4. AT A MEETING OF VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE (VNAF) OFFICERS ON 10

CONFIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

APRIL 1963, VNAF COMMANDER COLONEL HUYNH HUU HIEN SAID THAT NHU HAD
INSTRUCTED HIGH-RANKING GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN) OFFICIALS AT A 5
APRIL MEETING TO PREPARE FOR A COMPLETE WITHDRAWAL OF AMERICAN AID;
NHU SAID THAT THE UNITED STATES WAS USING AID AS A MEANS OF PRESSURING
THE GVN AND WAS IMPINGING ON GVN SOVEREIGNTY. AS AN EXAMPLE OF THE
USE OF AMERICAN AID TO PRESSURE A RECIPIENT COUNTRY, HIEN CITED THE
CUTOFF OF DELIVERIES OF GASOLINE TO THE ROYAL THAI AIR FORCE WHEN THE
THAI GOVERNMENT REFUSED TO AGREE TO SOME (UNSPECIFIED) POINT;
HIEN SAID THAT THE DELIVERY OF GASOLINE RECOMMENCED ONLY AFTER STRONG
THAI GOVERNMENT PROTESTATIONS. (FIELD COHMENT. PRESUMABLY HIEN
REFERS TO THE REDUCTION AND EVENTUAL TERMINATION BY THE END OF
FISCAL YEAR 1965 OF U.S. SUPPORT OF MILITARY AID PROGRAM POL AND
MEDICAL SUPPLIES TO THE THAI GOVERNMENT.)

5. AFTER THE MEETING SEVERAL VNAF OFFICERS, INCLUDING MAJOR DANG
   DINH LINH, DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF FOR MATERIAL, MAJOR TRAN DO CUNG,
   ASSISTANT TO THE CHIEF OF STAFF, AND CAPTAIN HA DUONG DOAN, DEPUTY CHIEF
   OF STAFF FOR BUDGET AND FINANCE, AGREED THAT THE VNAF WOULD BE UNABLE
   TO CONTINUE OPERATIONS WITHOUT AMERICAN SUPPORT AND THAT, IN FACT,
   ANY WITHDRAWAL OF AMERICAN SUPPORT WOULD RESULT IN COLLAPSE OF THE
   REGIME.

6. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM USIS 9TH
   FIELD STA 2ND AIR DIV CINCPAC PACAF ARPAC PACFLT.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS -3/544,531
IN 21850
PAGE 4

7. APPRAISAL: IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT NHU MADE THE STATEMENTS CONTAINED IN PARAGRAPHS 1 AND 3 AND THAT INSTRUCTIONS WERE ISSUED AS DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH 2. IT IS POSSIBLY TRUE THAT NHU MADE THE STATEMENTS IN PARAGRAPHS 4 AND 5 CONCERNING THE UNITED STATES USING AID TO PRESSURE THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM BUT IT IS DOUBTFUL THAT HE TOLD GVN OFFICIALS TO PREPARE FOR A COMPLETE WITHDRAWAL OF AMERICAN AID. THE REACTION OF THE VIETNAMESE AIR FORCE OFFICERS TO HIEN'S VERSION OF NHU'S STATEMENTS IS PROBABLY TRUE.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)