2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10115
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 7/16/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

(When Filled In)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/655,558

SUBJECT STATUS OF COUP D'ETAT PLANS OF TRAN KIM TUYEN'S GROUP

DATE DISTR. 16 JULY 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF INFO. 15 JULY 1963

REFERENCES IN. 80366

PLACE & DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON (15 JULY 1963)

FIELD REPORT NO. EVS 9309

APPRAISAL 3

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A HIGH-LEVEL VIETNAMESE OFFICIAL (C) WITH EXTENSIVE CONTACTS AMONG GOVERNMENT LEADERS.

> 
> 1. ON 15 JULY 1963 AN INDIVIDUAL ASSOCIATED WITH THE COUP D'ETAT
>    GROUP HEADED BY DR. TRAN KIM TUYEN, CURRENTLY AN ADVISOR AT THE PRES-
>    IDENCY, SAID THAT THEIR NATIONALIST, ANTI-COMMUNIST COUP WOULD OCCUR
>    "SOON." HOWEVER, AS THE VIET CONG WERE REPORTEDLY PLANNING TO INTEN-
>    SIFY THEIR ACTIVITIES DURING THE WEEK PRIOR TO THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE
>    GENEVA ACCORDS n20 JULY, THE COUP WOULD NOT BE STAGED UNTIL AFTER THAT
>    DATE. THE COUP WOULD BE DIRECTED AGAINST PRESIDENT DIEM AS WELL AS
>    THE NGÔ ĐÌNH NHUS AND THE GROUP PLANNED TO ESTABLISH A CONSTITUTIONAL

CONFIDENTIAL CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY/L AIR/JCS SECDEF NSA IL UST/A OCI CONE

STATE/O/IR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

2ECBEL

NO LOOSE INFO

FORM 10-62 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS:

SANITIZED MK.89.15

![GROUP Excluded from: automatic downgrading and declasufica]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
BACKGROUND USE ONLY

57

IN 80366
TDCSDB-3/655,558
PAGE 2

REGIME BEHIND VICE PRESIDENT: NGUYEN NGOC THO.*, (FIELD COMMENT. FVS-

9286 (DCSDB-3/655,471 ), FROM ANOTHER SOURCE, REPORTED DETAILS OF TUYEN'S
PLAN AND THAT HE WANTED TO MOVE BEFORE THE END OF JULY;)

2. FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR) USMACV (GENERAL HARKINS)

CINCPAC PACFLT ARPACO PACARAPE Cons nonго не ве ядуOCO JE VLIED DIWA

О КОРОМЕИ YO SHE TEL CONG NEDE УЕБОЧДЕОГА УГУВЧИС 10 ТИЩЕН

1819 2389 ЭНТ ТΑ ΣΟΣΙΝΟΑ ΝΑ ΥΥСТИЛИ ИЗУUT MIX MART CUORE

:1 он 12 ЭЛГА 1923 M INDIAID MILH THE CONG DELVI

> [Figure] A high resolution chart with many words illegible due to light contrast. The title is cut off but seems to mention something about the source of the image being from 'DAESANENI'.

SECRET

VELESENCSE

BKECEDENCE SCALIKE

FESORE KO LOOP09-2222228

CENDROF MESSAGE ONUD MEL JAГA

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.
NO FOREIGN DISSEM BACKGROUND, USE ONLY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)