# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10135
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : CIA Information Telegram
DATE : 10/4/1963
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 10/6/1963-10/14/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains "Information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY

SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/560,871

SUBJECT

PLANNED SUICIDE OF AMBASSADOR
BUU HOI'S MOTHER, DIEU HUE

DATE DISTR.

4 OCTOBER 1963

DATE OF INFO.

3 OCTOBER 1963

PRECEDENCE

PRIORITY

PLACE & DATE ACQ.

VIETNAM, SAIGON (3 OCTOBER 1963)

REFERENCES

IN 32958

APPRAISAL

SEE BELOW
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

A VIETNAMESE BUSINESSMAN (F) WITH GOOD CONTACT'S AMONG BUDDHISTS.

APPR: EARLIER ALLEGED INTENTIONS OF DIEU HUE TO COMMIT SUICIDE IN SUPPORT OF THE BUDDHIST CAUSE WERE WIDELY PUBLICIZED. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT SHE MIGHT DO SO.

1. BY 3 OCTOBER 1963 THE BUDDHIST NUN, DIEU HUE, MOTHER OF BUU HOI, VIETNAMESE SCIENTIST, AMBASSADOR TO SEVERAL AFRICAN COUNTRIES AND CURRENTLY THE GOVERNMNT OF VITNAM (GVN) OBSERVER AT THE UNITED NATIONS (UN), AD DECIDED TO COMMIT SUICIDE, PROBABLY ON 5 OCTOBER. THREATWAS TIMED FOR IMPACT ON THE UN BUT WAS NOT TO BE BY BURNING.

2. DIEU HUE HAD PREPARED A LETTER DENOUNC ING HER SON AND CLIMING THAT BUDDHISM WAS STILL BEING PERSECUTED IN VIETNAM, COPIES OF WHICH WERE TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO THE FORIEGN PRESS AND TO THE "CLANDESTINE" OPPOSITION BY HER COMPANION AND ATTENDANT, A

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA. ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 00 EXO

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

IMMEDIATE TO: STATE (RCI) (FOR HUGHES: PLS PASS TO MR. HILSMAN)

FORM 4-63 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS,

(15-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS-3/560,871
IN 32958
PAGE 2

YOUNGER NUN.

3. JUST PRIOR TO THE SUICIDE, THE COMPANION PLANNED TO DELIVER A COPY OF THE LETTER TO THE U..S. EMBASSY FOR AMBASSADOR LODGE AND TO SEEK ASYLUM THERE. SHE BELIVED HER LIFE WOULD BE IN DANGER AS THE GVN WOULD KNOW THAT ONLY SHE COULD HAVE DISTRIBUTED THE LETTER.

4. THICH THIEN HOA, PRESIDENT OF THE PRO-GVN UNION COMMITTEE FOR THE DEFENSE OF PURE BUDDHISM AND MOST OF THE OTHER MONKS AND NUNS AT THE AN QUANG PAGODA, WHERE DIEU HUE AND HER COMPANION RESIDE, WERE UNAWARE OF THE SUICIDE PLAN.

5. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM USIS 9TH FLD. STA. 2ND AIR DIV. CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)