# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10079
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE: Possible severence of Cambodian
DATE: 9/17/1962
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 9/62. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM IN.ORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE DAGENCY DAGENCESTROY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Tille. Secs 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM CAMBODIA

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/522,837

SUBJECT POSSIBLE SEVERANCE OF CAMBODIAN-.
SOUTH VIETNAMESE DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS
DATE DISTR. 17 SEPTEMBER 1962

DATE OF INFO. MID-SEPTEMBER 1962.

PLACE & DATE ACO. VIETNAM, SAIGON (14 SEPTEMBER 1962)

PRECEDENCE ROUT INE DUNGAN

REFERENCES KAYSEN
INLDY561
_PETERSEN
_SCHLESINGER

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS: 7943

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE A SENIOR OFFICIAL (B) IN THE GENERAL CONFEDERATION OF VIETNAMESE LABOBINSON
KLEIN
KOMER
RASKIN
SAUNDERS

1. LE VAN DONG, FORMER MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, SAID ON 14 SEPTEMBER 1962 THAT HE HAS BEEN ADVISED BY A RELIABLE SOURCE IN CAMBODIA THAT THE ROYAL CAMBODIAN GOVERNMENT /RKG/ IS PLANNING TO SEVER RELATIONS WITH SOUTH VIETNAM. THE DECISION IS TO BE FORMALIZED AT A CABINET MEETING ON EITHER 19 OR 20 SEPTEMBER, AT WHICH TIME THE RKG MINISTER OF NATIONAL DEFENSE WILL REQUEST THE SEVERANCE OF DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS.

2. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG USOM CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF 9TH FIELD STATION.

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

STATE INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00 EXO

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)