2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10117
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM :
TO:
TITLE: CIA Information Telegram
DATE: 7/18/1963
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 198: Vietnam, 7/1/1963-7/20/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title,U.S.C-Secs:-
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation "of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS.

**SECRET**
NO FOREIGN, DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY: SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO: TDCS DB-3/655,605

SUBJECT: MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH COMMENTS ON THE CURRENT SITUATION AND ON THE NEED FOR A CHANGE IN THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM

DATE OF INFO.: 13-216 JULY 1963

DATE DISTR: 18 JULY 1963

PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE

REFERENCES: HNZ 82003

PLACE & DATE ACQ.: VIETNAM, SAIGON (17 JULY 1963)

APPRAISAL: SEE BELOW

FIELD REPORT NO: FVS-9322

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: AN AMERICAN OBSERVER (B); FROM A UNITED STATES, ARMY, FIELD-GRADE OFFICER; FROM GENERAL DUONG VĂN MINH.

APPR: GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH PROBABLY HOLDS THESE VIEWS AND IS KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN DISGRUNTLED WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM SINCE 1960, EVEN THOUGH HE HAS NOT SO EXPRESSED HIMSELF PREVIOUSLY (SEE PARA. 2.B).

1. SUMMARY: ON 16 JULY 1963 MAJOR GENERAL DUONG VĂN MINH, MILITARY ADVISOR TO PRESIDENT DIEM, CRITICIZED THE PRESIDENT, SAID THAT HE LACKED THE SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE, AND ADVOCATED A CHANGE IN THE REGIME, BUT ASSERTED THAT NGO DINH NHU COULD NOT TAKE OVER THE GOVERNMENT. HE ALSO SAID THAT BRIGADIER GENERAL DO CAO TRI WOULD REMAIN IN COMMAND OF THE 1ST DIVISION.

2. GENERAL MINH MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS:

A. PRESIDENT DIEM HAS CHANGED SO COMPLETELY THAT IT IS NO LONGER POSSIBLE TO REASON WITH HIM. IN THE EARLY DAYS HE HAD THE SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE AND WAS VERY POPULAR THROUGHOUT SOUTH VIETNAM.

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:

**SECRET**
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SEGDEF NSA NIG AID USIA OGI ONE OGR ORA OBI

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 10-62 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

IT WAS A SIMPLE MATTER AT THAT TIME TO GAIN THE SUPPORT OF THE PEASANTS FOR THE VARIOUS PROGRAMS OF THE GOVERNMENT. THEN HE BEGAN SCREENING HIMSELF IN AND BY 1959 HE HAD LOST COMPLETE TOUCH WITH THE PEOPLE. THAT MAY HAVE BEEN THE TIME TO HAVE CHANGED THE GOVERNMENT.

AFTER 1960 DIEM CHANGED COMPLETELY, BECOMING CONVINCED THAT HE WAS OPERATING UNDER A MANDATE FROM HEAVEN. THIS WAS APPARENT IN HIS REMARKS ON 7 JULY WHEN HE SAID THAT THE COUNTRY WAS GUIDED BY "INTUITIVE WISDOM."

## B. THE BUDDHIST ISSUE IS AN ILLUSTRATION OF DIEM'S IRRATIONAL ATTITUDE.

DIEM TOLD MINH ON 13 JULY THAT THE BINH XUYEN, THE THOA HAO, AND THE CAO DAT WERE ALL STRONGER THAN THE BUDDHISTS. THEY HAD REGULAR ARMED TROOPS BUT THE GOVERNMENT WAS STILL ABLE TO DEFEAT THEM, SO WHY CANNOT THE GOVERNMENT ALSO DEFEAT THE MONKS, WHO HAVE NEITHER ARMS NOR MILITARY ORGANIZATION? MINH WAS UNABLE TO CONVINCE THE PRESIDENT THAT THE SITUATIONS WERE NOT THE SAME BECAUSE OF THE RIGID STAND DIEM HAS TAKEN WITH REGARD TO THE BUDDHISTS. (SOURCE COMMENT. THIS IS THE FIRST TIME MINH HAS MADE SUCH STRONG STATEMENTS AGAINST DIEM.)

THE BUDDHIST PROBLEM IS FAR FROM SETTLED, IT IS BECOMING WORSE AND UNLESS THE GOVERNMENT CHANGES ITS POLICY THERE WILL BE ADDITIONAL BUDDHIST SELF IMMOLATIONS.

THERE MUST BE A CHANGE IN THE GOVERNMENT. SOUTH VIETNAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

IN 82003
PAGE 3

IS LIKE A YOUNG TREE; IT HAS FIRM ROOTS AND IS GROWING BUT IT MUST HAVE A PROPER ATMOSPHERE SO THAT ITS LEAVES, I.E., THE PEOPLE, CAN BREATHE. THIS IS LACKING IN SOUTH VIETNAM.

E. NGO DINH NHU CAN NEVER TAKE OVER THE GOVERNMENT; (SHOULD HE SUCCEED IT WOULD PROVE THAT THE VIET CONG (VC) ARE RIGHT IN CLAIMING THAT THE VC ARE THE ONLY ONES WHO REALLY FIGHT FOR THE! PEOPLE! (SOURCES COMMENTE MAJOR GENERAL TRAN VAN DON, COMMANDING GENERAL OF THE ARMY AND BRIGADIER GENERAL LE VAN KIM, MINISTRY OF NATIONAL DEFENSE, AREMMINH SE CLOSE FRIENDS!)

INTH WAS VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLE TO OBTAIN AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE VN BUDDHISTS LAND THE GOVERNMENT BECAUSE THE SELF PRIDE OF CERTAIN KEY A VN INDIVIDUALS, BY DE THIÊN HÔ SOẠN DY ARCHBISHOP NGO DINH THUC, WHADOL, THE BECOME INVOLVED. THO HAS BEEN WANTING TO RESIGN BUT WAS NOT EVEN PERMITTED TO SUBMIT A LETTER OF RESIGNATION. HE STILL INTENDS TO DO SO. GO THROUGH WITH IT, HOWEVER. (FIELD COMMENTOALEVS-9243), (TDCS-3/552,503,

H) REPORTED THAT DIEM HAD REFUSED TO ACCEPT THO'S WRITTEN RESIGNATION, SUBMITTED ON YIK JULY. FVS-9256, TDCS-3/552,565, REPORTED THO'S STATEMENT THAT HE WANTED TO RESIGN BUT WAS UNCERTAIN HAS OTO THE TIMING. THE MEANING OF THE MEASURES.

G. IF THE MILITARY PRESSURE AGAINST THE VC CAN BE CONTINUED

AT THE PRESENT RATE FOR CAL YEAR, THE ARMY CAN DISRUPT THE VC ARMEDS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCSDB-3/655,605
IN 82003
PAGE 4

INSURGENTS. THE WINNING OF THE WAR AGAINST THE VC IS NOT SIMPLY A MILITARY PROBLEM, HOWEVER, BUT ONE THAT REQUIRES THE SUPPORT OF THE PEOPLE, AND THIS IS LACKING.

H. NO TROUBLE IS ANTICIPATED FROM THE VC ON THE 20 JULY, AN ANNIVERSARY OF THE SIGNING OF THE GENEVA ACCORDS; BUT THE STUDENTS MIGHT CAUSE TROUBLE BECAUSE OF THE SUICIDE OF OPPOSITIONIST NGUYEN TUONG TAM.

BRIGADIER GENERAL DO CAO TRI WILL REMAIN IN COMMAND OF THE 1ST INFANTRY DIVISION FOR THE TIME BEING AND BRIGADIER GENERAL L'EVAN NGHIEM WILL REMAIN IN NINE COMMAND OF I CORPS, WHICH PLACES NGHIEM IN AN IMPOSSIBLE POSITION AS THE TWO MEN DO NOT GET ALONG WELL WITH EACH OTHER. TRI'S PROMOTION WAS DESERVED BECAUSE HE IS A VERY STRONG FIGHTER. OF (FIELD COMMENT, E-FVS-9302, DOBDB-3/655, 512) REPORTED NHU'S STATEMENT THAT CTR CHAD BEEN PROMOTED AND NAMED/COMMANDER OF WII CORPS. FVS-9267, (TDOS-3/552/485) REPORTED NGHIEM'S STATEMENT OF HIS DESIRE TO RESIGN FROM THE ARMY.

3. E'FIELD DISSEMIN STATE (AMBASSADOR NOLTING), USMACV (GENERAL HARKINS ONLY) CINEPAC PACFLT ARPAC PACAF!

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)