# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10134

RECORD SERIES : National Security Files

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE : CIA Information Telegram

DATE : 9/21/1963

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 200: Vietnam, 9/17/1963-9/21/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/656,771

SUBJECT PHAM NGOC THAO AND TUYEN GROUP
READY TO LAUNCH COUP D'ETAT

DATE DISTR. 21 SEPTEMBER 1963

PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

DATE OF
INFO. 18-19 SEPTEMBER 1963

REFERENCES IN 24185

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. VIETNAM, SAIGON (18-19 SEPTEMBER 1963)

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS 9674

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A. VIETNAMESE NATIONALIST (B) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN LEGAL AND POLITICAL CIRCLES
WITH PARAGRAPH 1 FROM DUONG AND WITH PARAGRAPH 2 FROM LINH.

APPRAISAL PLANS BY THE TUYEN GROUP TO LAUNCH A COUP D'ETAT ARE PROBABLY CONTINUING, BUT THE PRECISE TIMING AND CAPABILITY ARE DIFFICULT TO DETERMINE.

1. THE MOVE TO OUST THE NGO FAMILY FROM POWER WAS SCHEDULED FOR THE WEEK BEGINNING 22 SEPTEMBER 1963, ACCORDING TO NGUYEN HUU DUONG, GOVERNMENT ATTORNEY IN THE SAIGON MUNICIPAL COURTS AND MEMBER OF THE TRAN KIM TUYEN COUP GROUP. DUONG SAID ON 19 SEPTEMBER THAT LIEUTENANT COLONEL PHAM NGOC THAO, STRATEGIC HAMLET INSPECTOR FOR NGO DINH NHU AND MEMBER OF BOTH THE TUYEN GROUP AND THE GROUP LED BY HUYNH VAN LANG, ECONOMICS PROFESSOR AT SAIGON UNIVERSITY, HAD GIVEN HIM THIS INFORMATION. THAO HAD ALSO TOLD DUONG THAT GENERALS DUONG VAN MINH, MILITARY ADVISOR TO THE PRESIDENT, AND LE VAN KIM OF THE MINISTRY OF NATIONAL DEFENSE, WERE INVOLVED IN THE PLANS.

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACS1 NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC OCI ONE OCR

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM
4-63 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS :
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCS-DB-3/656,771
IN 24185
PAGE 2

2. BRIGADIER GENERAL NGUYEN KHANH, COMMANDING GENERAL, 11 CORPS, WOULD MOVE ON HUE AT THE SAME TIME THAT THAO LAUNCHED HIS MOVE IN SAIGON, ACCORDING TO A STATEMENT BY LIEUTENANT NGUYEN NGOC LINH, KHANH'S AIDE, ON 18 SEPTEMBER. LINH ALSO SAID THAT THAO WAS READY TO MOVE WITHIN A WEEK TO OVERTHROW DIEM.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE AMBASSADOR LODGE, USMACV (GENERAL HARKINS), CINCPAC PACAF ARPAC PACFLT.

END OF MESSAGE
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS:
NO FOREIGN DISSEN
NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)