176-10036-10086
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10086
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : Views...Possible Coup D'Etat
DATE : 6/15/1962
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 196: Vietnam, 6/62. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains Information affecting the National Defense of the United States, within the meaning of the. Espionage. Laws, Title: 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which. in. any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law..

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO. TDCS -3/513,973

SUBJECT VIEWS OF COLONEL ΤΟΝ THAT XUNG KONYTHEN DATE DISTR. 15 JUNE 1962
POSSIBILITY OF A COUP D'ETAT

DATE OF RETAIN OR DESTROY REFERENCES FILE IN
INFO.

PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (3 JUNE 1962)
DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL SEE BELOW FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-7484
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE AN AMERICAN OBSERVER (B); FROM COLONEL ΤΟΝ THAT XUNG.

APPR. IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT XUNG HOLDS THE VIEWS STATED; HOWEVER, THE CONTENTS OF THE STATEMENTS ARE CONSIDERED POSSIBLY TRUE.

1. COLONEL TON THAT XUNG, COMMANDER OF THE RANGER COMMAND, DURING A

3 JUNE 1962 LUNCHEON MEETING WITH TON THAT CHU, CHIEF OF PLEIKU PROVINCE, SAID

THAT THE PEOPLE OF SOUTH VIETNAM WERE GETTING TIRED OF THE PRESENT SITUATION AND

THAT SOME ACTION WAS GOING TO BE TAKEN TO CHANGE IT. THIS TIME, HOWEVER, THE

PLANS WERE NOT GOING TO BE COMMUNICATED TO THE AMERICANS BECAUSE THE UNITED

STATES, A BASICALLY LAW-ABIDING NATION, IS OPPOSED TO UNLAWFUL ACTS. SINCE A

COUP D'ETAT IS CONSIDERED BY AMERICAN OFFICIALS TO BE AN UNLAWFUL PROCESS, THE

US IS FORCED TO DISCOURAGE SUCH ACTIONS, AND THEREFORE, THE AMERICANS WILL NOT

BE NOTIFIED OF ANY FUTURE ACTIVITY ON THE PART OF THE VIETNAMESE TO UPSET THE

CURRENT REGIME UNTIL THE ACTION IS ACCOMPLISHED.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

![group 1, excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL TDCS -3/513,973 IN PAGE TWO

2. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMACV MAAG AID CINCPAC ARPAC PACFLT PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

![Image of text YELYM OK DEZIKOA]

![Image of text words]

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)