176-10036-10052 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10052
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : Central Intelligence Agency Information Report
DATE : 6/28/1963
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 48: Cuban Subjects: Exiles information report. Box 1

)-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage to Bee, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY CUBA

SUBJECT CUBAN EXILE PLANS

DATE OF INFO.: MID-JUNE 1963

PLACE & DATE ACO. ENGLAND, LONDON (27 JUNE 1963)

APPRAISAL 3

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/551,800RRESTAL

DATE DISTR. 28 JUNE 19630HNSON

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES

KAYSEN
KILDUFF
_KLEIN
KOMER
_ SAUNDERS
SCHLESINGER

FIELD REPORT NO. OEL 3566SMITH

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENTIENTIVE.

SOURCE AN OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS "WELL KNOWN AND EXPERIENCED IN REPORTING, PROBABLY RELIABLE, QUOTING THE PERSONS MENTIONED".

1. AMAURY FRAGINALS ALONSO, ONE OF THE LEADERS IN THE ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO POPULAR (POPULAR REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT - MRP), THE SECOND FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY AND ALPHA 66, CLAIMED IN CONFIDENTIAL DISCUSSION DURING A VISIT TO VENEZUELA IN MID JUNE 63 THAT THE ALLIANCE WILL CONTINUE TO ATTACK THE CUBAN MAINLAND.

AT THE SAME TIME, PLANS ARE GOING AHEAD TO LAUNCH PLAN OMEGA.

FRAGINALS SAID THAT PLAN OMEGA HAS THREE STAGES: (A) REORGANIZATION AND ARMING OF GUERRILLA GROUPS THROUGHOUT CUBA WHICH WILL BE LED BY LOCAL MEN WHO KNOW THEIR AREA;

(B) INCESSANT GUERRILLA ATTACKS AGAINST RUSSIAN BASES, THE CUBAN

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID. USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OBI 00 EX

TATE/DIR FBI I&NS TREASURY

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

ORM. 1K OBSOLETE FREVIOUS EDITIONS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
(When Filled In)
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS-3/551,866
IN 69083
PAGE 2

ARMY AND THE MILITIA. THE PURPOSE OF THESE WILL BE TO CAUSE MATERIAL DAMAGE TO THE CUBAN ARMED FORCES, UNDERMINE THEIR MORALE AND RAISE THE MORALE OF THE CIVILIAN POPULATION IN PREPARATION FOR AN INSURRECTION; (C) COORDINATION AND CONTROL OF A GENERAL INSURRECTION.

2. FRAGINALS REMARKED THAT THE REORGANIZATION OF GUERRILLA GROUPS IS PROGRESSING SATISFACTORILY BUT THAT THERE IS AN INSUFFICIENCY OF FUNDS. HE REVEALED THAT THE ALLIANCE IS RECEIVING BLUE-PRINTS, FROM INSIDE CUBA, OF MAJOR PLANTS. THEY INCLUDE INFORMATION ABOUT THEIR FUNCTIONS, SHIFTS, AS WELL AS THE NUMBER AND DEPLOYMENT OF GUARDS. THE BLUE PRINTS ARE TRANSMITTED BY COURIER OR LETTER AND WILL BE USED FOR PLAN OMEGA.

3. FRAGINALS DESCRIBED THE LATEST ADHERENT TO THE ALLIANCE, THE FRENTE ANTI-COMMUNISTA DE LIBERACION (ANTI-COMMUNIST LIBERATION FRONT - FAL), AS A CLANDESTINE GROUP WITHIN THE CUBAN ARMY. HE REFUSED TO GIVE FIGURES BUT ALLEGED THAT THE GROUP WAS EXPANDING AND WOULD BE AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN THE "FORTHCOMING WAR" IN CUBA. HE CONFIRMED THE ALLIANCE'S DETERMINATION TO WAGE WAR ON FIDEL CASTRO'S REGIME, EVEN AT THE RISK OF PRECIPITATING A NUCLEAR CONFLICT

4. FIELD DISSEMI STATE, CINCLANT, CINCSO.

![list of names]

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)