# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10088
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE: Indication of Planning
DATE: 11/20/1962
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 11/62. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM/NORTH VIETNAM

REPORT.NO. TDCS-3/528,813

SUBJECT INDICATION OF PLANNING FOR THE REOCCUPATION OF NORTH VIETNAM

DATE DISTR. 20 NOVEMBER 1962

DATE OF INFO. LATE OCTOBER 1962

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

PLACE & DATE ACO. VIETNAM, SAIGON (2 NOVEMBER 1962)

REFERENCES IN

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO. FVS-8188

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A VIETNAMESE OFFICIAL (C) IN THE DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF INFORMATION; FROM A VIETNAMESE OFFICIAL (F) IN THE MINISTRY FOR CIVIC ACTION.

1. ON 20 OCTOBER 1962 MINISTER FOR CIVIC ACTION NGO TRONG HIEU TOLD THREE OF HIS ASSISTANTS THAT HE HAD BEEN DIRECTED TO ASSIST IN PLANNING FOR THE REOCCUPATION OF NORTH VIETNAM. THE PLANNING WOULD PROGRESS THROUGH MANY STAGES, BUT THE THREE ASSISTANTS WERE FIRST TO DRAFT A QUESTIONNAIRE THAT WAS TO BE FILLED OUT BY SELECTED PEOPLE IN SOUTH VIETNAM. IN ADDITION TO THIS FORM, PEOPLE WHO FORMERLY LIVED IN NORTH VIETNAM WOULD BE REQUIRED TO COMPLETE A SECOND QUESTIONNAIRE, WHICH WAS TO PROVIDE INFORMATION ON ALL ACQUAINTANCES STILL KNOWN TO BE IN NORTH VIETNAM. THE DRAFT QUESTIONNAIRE WAS LATTER SUBMITTED TO HIEU.

2. FIELD COMMENT. FVS-8137, TDCS-3/527,406, REPORTED, IN PARAGRAPH 3, NGO DINH NHU'S STATEMENT AT THE 5 OCTOBER MEETING OF THE INTERMINISTERIAL COMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC HAMLETS THAT THE SELF-DEFENSE CORPS MUST BECOME PART OF A

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA. NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00/

STATE/DIR

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1Kb OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM TDCS -3/528,813 IN
PAGE TWO

REARMED POPULACE, WHICH WOULD CARRY THE BATTLE FORWARD INTO LAOS, CAMBODIA, AND
NORTH VIETNAM. FVS-7934, TDCS-3/522,275, REPORTED THAT NHU, COMMENTING ON HIS
17 AUGUST REMARKS AT QUI NHON ABOUT A "MARCH TO THE NORTH" ASSERTED THAT THIS DID
NOT IMPLY A MILITARY MARCH, BUT WAS HIS CONCEPT THAT THE SUCCESS OF THE SOCIAL,
ECONOMIC, AND POLITICAL REVOLUTION IN SOUTH VIETNAM WOULD BE AN ATTRACTION FOR THE
PEOPLE IN THE NORTH AND WOULD GRADUALLY UNDERMINE THE COMMUNIST DICTATORSHIP THERE..
PARAGRAPH 4 OF FVS-7867, CS-3/522,559, REPORTING A NEW VERSION OF VIETNAMESE HISTORY
TO TIE IN THE STRATEGIC HAMLET PROGRAM WITH THE FLIGHT OF THE MOUNTAIN PEOPLE FROM
THE HIGH PLATEAU OF CENTRAL VIETNAM, STATED THAT THE THIRD EPOCH OF VIETNAMESE
HISTORY WAS OCCURRING, AND THAT THE VIETNAMESE PEOPLE WERE NOW RETURNING TOWARD
THE NORTH THROUGH THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE STRATEGIC HAMLETS.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAVY AIR USMAGV MAAG AID 9TH FIELD STATION
   CINCPAC ARPAC PACFLT PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C_O_N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)