2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY : NARA
RECORD NUMBER : 176-10036-10051
RECORD SERIES : National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : Central Intelligence Agency Information Report
DATE : 8/10/1963
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS :
DOCUMENT TYPE :
CLASSIFICATION :
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS :
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : National Security Files, Box 48: Cuban Subjects: Exiles information report. Box 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the. United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

COUNTRY CUBA NICARAGUA

SUBJECT POSSIBLE ESTABLISHMENT OF A CUBAN EXILE BASE IN NICARAGUA

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/556, 052

DATE DISTR. 10 AUGUST. 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF INFO. 24 JULY 1963

PLACE & DATE ACO. ENGLAND, LONDON (9 AUGUST 1963)

REFERENCES TDCS-3/555,529

IN 97132

FIELD REPORT NO. OEL 35,970

APPRAISAL 3

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS "WELL-KNOWN AND EXPERIENCED IN REPORTING, PROBABLY RELIABLE, QUOTING ROMANI."

1. IN PRIVATE CONVERSATION/24 JULY 63, SALVADOR ROMANI, REPRESENTATIVE IN VENEZUELA OF CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATION COMANDO UNIFICADO DE LA LIBERACION EN CUBA (UNITED COMMAND OF CUBAN LIBERATION - CULC), CLAIMED THAT A SMALL NUMBER CUBAN EXILES HAD ALREADY MOVED FROM MIAMI TO NICARAGUA. IN EXILE CIRCLES IT IS BELIEVED THIS ACTION REFLECTS A PREVIOUS AGREEMENT BETWEEN PRESIDENT SOMOZA OF NICARAGUA AND MANUEL ARTIME, SECRETARY GENERAL OF EXILE GROUP MOVIMIENTO DE RECUPERACIÓN REVOLUCIONARIA (MOVEMENT OF REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY - MR.R). ROMANI DID NOT KNOW DETAILS OF AGREEMENT. IF IT ENTAILS ESTABLISHMENT OF A LARGE-SCALE EXILE MILITARY BASE IN NICARAGUA,

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

55

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
TDCS -3/556,052
IN 97132
PAGE 2

OTHER EXILE GROUPS WILL AWAIT REACTION OF UNITED STATES BEFORE
DECIDING THEIR OWN COURSE OF ACTION.

2. NUCLEUS/SUCH A BASE WOULD BE DRAWN FROM THREE TO FOUR THOUSAND
   EXILES WHO, ACCORDING TO ROMANI, HAVE PREVIOUSLY RECEIVED MILATARY
   TRAINING FROM MEMBERS/U.S. ARMED FORCES. ROMANI CLAIMED U.S.
   POLICY IS TO FERMENT INTERNAL RESISTANCE IN CUBA AND/STRENGTHEN THE
   RESISTANCE BY INFILTRATION OF TRAINED COMMANDO GROUPS OF EXILES.
   FOR THIS REASON THE U.S. CONTINUES/GIVE TACIT SUPPORT FOR TRAINING
   OF EXILE MILITARY ORGANIZATIONS.

3. ROMANI MADE FOLLOWING REVIEW OF POLICIES OF PRINCIPAL EXILE
   PARTIES:

(A) CULC IS CONCENTRATING ON DISSEMINATION/ANTI-CASTRO
PROPAGANDA IN CUBA TO PREPARE GROUND FOR INSURRECTION. IT FAVORS
INFILTRATION/SMALL MILITARY GROUPS BUT REJECTS A GENERAL INVASION.

(B) JURE (JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA), LED BY MANUEL RAY, CONSIDERS THE
PRINCIPLE REQUIREMENT IS TO SECURE SUPPORT OF DISCONTENTED ELEMENTS
IN CUBAN MILITIA AND ARMED FORCES.

(C) ALLIANCE OF MRP (MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO POPULAR),
SECOND FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY AND ALPHA 66, SUPPORTS CONTINUATION OF HIT-
AND-RUN RAIDS ON CUBAN MAINLAND IN ORDER/MAINTAIN MORALE OF RESISTANCE
FORCES IN CUBA.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS -3/556,052 IN 97132
PAGE 3

(D) SEVERAL GROUPS, INCLUDING UMC (UNIDADES MILITARES CUBANAS), CLC (COMANDOS LIBRES DE CUBA) AND A SECTION OF MRR CONSIDER THAT ONLY A GENERAL INVASION WILL OVERTHROW THE CUBAN REGIME.

(E) FUR (FRENTE UNIDO REVOLUCIONARIO), LED BY AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO, IS WORKING PRIMARILY TO OBTAIN AGREEMENT/LATIN AMERICAN GOVTS FOR COORDINATED POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC PRESSURE ON CUBA

FIELD DISSEM: STATE, CINCLANT CINCSO.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)