# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10036-10095
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Central Intelligence Agency Information Report
DATE: 4/22/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 197: Vietnam, 4/63-5/63. Box 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Titia 13, U.S.C Socs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized orized person, is Is prohibited by law.

SECRET
(When Filled In)

COUNTRY SOUTH VIETNAM

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/NO DISSEM ABOAD

REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/654,285

DATE DISTR. 22 APRIL 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

SUBJECT INDICATIONS OF GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM
PLAN TO REQUEST REDUCTION OF AMERICAN
PERSONNEL IN VIETNAM

REFERENCES IN 22329

DATE OF
INFO. MID-APRIL 1963

PLACE & VIETNAM, SAIGON (18 APRIL 1963)
DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL SEE BELOW

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE.: APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A VIETNAMESE OFFICIAL (F), WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS AT THE PRESIDENCY.

APPR IT IS POSSIBLY TRUE THAT BOTH DIEM AND NHU HAVE BECOME AT LEAST PARTIALLY UPSET
OVER CERTAIN AMERICAN ACTIVITIES IN SOUTH VIETNAM AND OVER THE LARGE NUMBER OF
AMERICAN PERSONNEL CURRENTLY IN SOUTH VIETNAM.

1. BY MID-APRIL 1963 A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF TENSION HAD
   DEVELOPED BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM AND THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
   OVER OPERATIONS IN SOUTH VIETNAM. BOTH DIEM AND NGO DINH NHU WERE
   CONCERNED OVER RECENT "INFRINGEMENTS" OF VIETNAMESE SOVEREIGNTY.
   MAAG WAS CITED AS A VIOLATOR IN THIS CONNECTION, BUT THE U.S.
   SPECIAL FORCES WERE SINGLED OUT AS THE MAIN IRRITANT. DIEM IS
   ALLOWING ADDITIONAL TIME FOR FURTHER BLUNDERS AND, AFTER BUILDING
   UP A STRONG CASE, HE PLANS TO CONFRONT AMBASSADOR NOLTING AND
   USMACV CHIEF GENERAL HARKINS WITH FRREFUTABLE EVIDENCE OF U.S.
   RESPONSIBILITY, DEMANDING A REDUCTION IN THE NUMBER OF U.S.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/NO DISSEM ABROAD

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC XXX XXXX OC ONE OCR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SANITIZED MK.01.197.6.6.3 1/15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/NO DISSEM ABROAD
TDCS DB-3/654,285
22329
PAGE: 2

PERSONNEL IN SOUTH VIETNAM ON THE BASIS THAT THE FORCE IS TOO
LARGE AND UNMANAGEABLE..

2. SOME VIETNAMESE INVOLVED IN CLOSE WORKING RELATIONSHIPS
   WITH AMERICANS WERE BEING QUESTIONED IN DETAIL BY PRESIDENCY
   STAFF MEMBERS AS TO U.S. ACTIVITIES. SOME OF THE INDIVIDUALS
   QUESTIONED HAD INDICATED TO THE PRESIDENCY THAT THE U.S. MILITARY,
   AND PARTICULARLY THE U.S. SPECIAL FORCES, ALTHOUGH GENERALLY
   WELL. MOTIVATED, DID NOT SEEM TO UNDERSTAND THE NECESSITY FOR
   COORDINATING THEIR ACTIVITIES WITH APPROPRIATE VIETNAMESE
   AUTHORITIES.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE (AMBASSADOR NOLTING), USMACV
   (GENERAL HARKINS), MAAG (GENERAL TIMMES), CINCPAC PACFLT ARPAC
   PACAF.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY/NO DISSEM ABROAD


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)