176-10037-10452 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY: NARA
RECORD NUMBER: 176-10037-10452
RECORD SERIES: National Security Files
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: Information Report Re: Views
DATE: 8/1/1962
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS:
DOCUMENT TYPE:
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS:
CURRENT STATUS:
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 9/10/2000
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: National Security Files, Box 196: Countries, Vietnam, General 8/1/62-
8/14/62. Box 6.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains Information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage laws, Title 18; U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794; the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY: SOUTH VIETNAM REPORT NO.: TDCS DB-3/650,938

SUBJECT: WARNING TO PRESIDENT DIEM OF A POSSIBLE DATE DISTR.: 1 AUGUST 1962
COUP D'ETAT ON NIGHT OF 1-2 AUGUST 1962

PRECEDENCE: PRIORITY DUNGAN
KAYSEN
DATE OF 1 AUGUST 1962 REFERENCES: KILDUFF
INFO: VIETNAM, SAIGON (1 AUGUST 1962) PETERSEN
PLACE & SCHLESINGER
DATE ACQ: BELK
APPRAISAL: SEE BELOW FIELD REPORT NO:

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION: SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE: APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: PARA: 2-4: AN AMERICAN OBSERVER: FROM LIEUTENANT COLONEL NGUYEN VAN CHAPANSON
PARA: 5-8: AN AMERICAN OBSERVER: FROM MAJOR LONG
PARA: 9: AN OFFICER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL SECURITY SERVICE (C), WHO IS KOMER

BELIEVED TO REPORT WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OF HIS GOVERNMENT RASKIN
SAUNDERS

COMMENT. ALTHOUGH THE COUP D'ETAT DESCRIBED IN THIS
HEADQUARTERS:
REPORT DID NOT OCCUR ON THE NIGHT OF 1-2 AUGUST 1962, THIS REPORT IS BEING
DISSEMINATED SINCE IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED MIGHT EVOLVE
HE DID NOT EXHYUYIN THE BASIS OF HIS CONCLUSIONS. SEE FIELD APPRAISAL
A PLAN FOR A FUTURE COUP AGAINST THE DIEM REGIME.

PARAS 10 THROUGH 14.

ON 1 AUGUST 1962 LIEUTENANT COLONEL NGUYEN VAN CHAU, CHIEF OF THE

ARMY OF THE REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (ARVN) PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE SERVICE, STATED

AT APPROXIMATELY 2100 HOURS THAT HE HAD BEEN INFORMED THAT PRESIDENT NGO DINH
DIEM HAD BEEN WARNED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF A COUP D'ETAT OCCURING ON THE NIGHT
OF 1-2 AUGUST 1962. (SOURCE COMMENT: CHAU DID NOT NAME THE INDIVIDUAL FROM

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

S-E-C-R-E-T NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC OCI ONE DIA CIB

VIEF EXO

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/BACKGROUND USE
ONLY/NO DISSEM ABROAD
IN
-TDCS DB-3/650;938
PAGE TWO

WHOM HE RECEIVED THE INFORMATION.

3. -CHAU-ADDED-THAT-THE-COUP-WAS-ALLEGEDLY-BEING-PLANNED-BY-A-GROUP-OF-
   SENIOR ARVN OFFICERS LED BY ARVN CHIEF OF FIELD COMMAND MAJOR GENERAL DUONG
   VAN MINH. CHAU ALSO STATED THAT HE BELIEVED THAT BRIGADIER GENERAL MAI HUU
   XUAN, CHIEF OF THE QUANG TRUNG TRAINING CENTER, MIGHT ALSO BE INVOLVED. CHAU
   INDICATED THAT XUAN'S INVOLVEMENT WAS INFERENTIAL AND NOT EXPLICIT.

4. CHAU COMMENTED WITHOUT FURTHER EXPLANATION THAT THE FRENCH MIGHT ALSO
   BE INVOLVED. CHAU CONJECTURED THAT NOT MORE THAN TWO ARVN BATTALIONS WERE
   INVOLVED. HE DID NOT EXPLAIN THE BASIS OF HIS CONJECTURE.

5. AT APPROXIMATELY 2200 HOURS ON 1 AUGUST, MAJOR LONG, CHIEF OF THE
   CAPITAL REGION MILITARY SECURITY SERVICE (MSS) STATED THAT A CENTRAL TELE-
   COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER OF THE GIA DINH PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT HAD INTERCEPTED

ON 1 AUGUST A VIETNAMESE, COMMUNIST (VC) RADIO MESSAGE, IN PLAIN TEXT ADDRESSED ADENS
TO THE VC SAIGON/CHOLON ZONE COMMITTEE INSTRUCTING ALL VC MILITARY UNITS TO BE
PREPARED-FOR-AN-UPRISING-AT-MIDNIGHT-ON-1-AUGUST-(SOURCE-COMMENT MAJOR
LONG DID NOT IDENTIFY THE ORIGINATOR OF THE MESSAGE.) (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT 'K

IMEO TDCS-3/518,127 REPORTED THAT ON 23 JULY 1962 THE VC IN THE SAIGON AREA WERE
ORDERED TO CEASE ALL TERRORIST ACTIVITIES AND TO PREPARE FOR A POSSIBLE COUP D'ETAT.

6. MAJOR LONG ADDED THAT GENERAL XUAN HAD INFORMED THE VIETNAMESE
   -GOVERNMENT-ON-25-JULY-1962-THAT-HIS-INTELLIGENCE-SECTION-HAD-INTERCEPTED-A
   VC DOCUMENT INSTRUCTING VC PERSONNEL TO BE READY FOR AN UPRISING IN ABOUT ONE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# WEEK

P-2-C-R-E-T
S-E-C-R-E-T

CLASSIFICATION = DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/NO DISSEM
ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
TDCS DB-3/650,938
PAGE -THREE-

(SOURCE COMMENT. MAJOR LONG DID NOT KNOW THE ORIGINATOR OR THE ADDRESSEE OF THE *INTERCEPTED DOCUMENT*, NOR DID HE STATE TO WHICH VIETNAMESE GOVERNMENT AGENCY GENERAL XUAN HAD REPORTED IN EVER TO REFLE

83. MAJOR LONG ALSO REVEALED THAT AN MSS AGENT PENETRATION OF THE VC OF UNTESTED RELIABILITY HAD REPORTED ON 1 AUGUST THAT HIS VC SUPERIOR IN CHAU HIEP (THIRTY KILOMETERS WEST OF SAIGON) HAD INSTRUCTED HIM ON 31 JULY TO BE ALERTED FOR A COUP, AND TO MEET HIS VC SUPERIOR IN SAIGON FOUR HOURS AFTER THE COUP BEGAN.

85. MAJOR LONG ALSO STATED THAT A HAND GRENADE HAD EXPLODED IN THE GOV'EAL VAP AREA OF SAIGON ON THE NIGHT OF 1 AUGUST INJURING SEVEN VIETNAMESE WOMEN AND CHILDREN (SOURCE COMMENT THE RELEVANCE OF THE EXPLOSION TO A COUP ATTEMPT IS NOT CLEAR BUT MAJOR LONG BELIEVED THAT THE EVENTS MIGHT BE VTRO CONNECTED 7-5.

ПИШЕТЕ THЕ PRESIDENTIAL SECURITY SERVICE (SEPES) INTERCEPTED CODED RADIO MESSAGES ON 12 AUGUST ON FUNUSUAL FREQUENCIES THE TEXT OF THE MESSAGES WHEN DECODED WERE IN VIETNAMESE AND FRENCH AND STATED THAT A COUP WOULD OCCUR ON THE NIGHT OF 1-2 AUGUST. ARVN UNITS HAVE BEEN ALERTED IN THE SAIGON AREA.

ICMG FOR FIELD COMMENT: CHAU IS CONSIDERED TO BE A FAIRLY RELIABLE SOURCE, WHO HAS PREVIOUSLY STATED THAT OF ALL THE ARVN OFFICERS, GENERAL DUONG VAN MINH, WAS THE MOST LIKELY TO LEAD A COUP ATTEMPT. GENERAL MINH HAS BEEN A VOCAL CRITIC OF THE DIEM REGIME INSOFAR AS DIEM'S EFFICACY AGAINST THE VC IS CONCERNED.

GENERAL MAI HUU XUAN, FREQUENTLY RUMORED TO BE A MEMBER OF VARIOUS COUP GROUPS.

2-E-S-E-R-E-T
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

S-E-C-R-E-T

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/NO DISSEM
ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

TDCSDB-3/650,938
PAGE FOUR

IS KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN DISSATISFIED WITH HIS PRESENT ASSIGNMENT AND TO HAVE
HARBORED RESENTMENTS AGAINST DIEM FOR ALLEGED SLIGHTS, DESPITE THE FACT THAT
DIEM PROMOTED HIM FROM 'COLONEL TO BRIGADIER GENERAL SEVERAL YEARS AGO. MAJOR
LONG HAS EXHIBITED PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE "IN HIS PRESENT POSITION."

11. FIELD COMMENT. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT ALL OF THE INFORMATION PROCEEDED
    FROM A SINGLE SOURCE OR FROM TWO SOURCES AND THE VARIATION IN DETAIL WAS IN THE
    ORAL ACCOUNTS OF DIFFERENT SOURCES. THE GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM (GVN) CENTRAL
    INTELLIGENCE ORGANIZATION (CIO) WAS UNAWARE OF ANY POSSIBLE COUP SHORTLY AFTER
    MIDNIGHT ON 1-2 AUGUST. HOWEVER, AT APPROXIMATELY THE SAME TIME, THE NORMAL
    PRESIDENTIAL GUARD HAD ALREADY BEEN REINFORCED AND POLICE CHECK POINTS ALSO
    SEEMED TO HAVE BEEN REINFORCED. GIVEN THE ADVANCE ALERT BY THE GVN MILITARY
    AND SECURITY ELEMENTS, IT IS PROBABLE THAT ANY INTENDED COUP WOULD BE ABORTIVE.
    FIELD COMMENT.

12. AT10200 ON 2 AUGUST, SAIGON WAS QUIET AND THERE WERE NO SIGNS APPARENT
    OF ANY COUP ATTEMPT, EXCEPT FOR THE ALERT OF SOME OF THE GVN ELEMENTS STATED IN
    PARAY 1105. VID IO WEEL ETE AC 20L6SIOS IN AVIGON LOME ACCES VIEEN JEE COII.
    (JATB13.VIFIELD COMMENT. THE INTERCEPT OF A PLAIN TEXT VC RADIO MESSAGE REFERRED
    TOLIN PARA FIVE IS NOT CONVINCING AND RAISES THE POSSIBILITY THAT THE VC MIGHT
    BE ENGAGED IN A CONFUSION MANEUVER. ISEPES CAPABILITY TO INTERCEPT AND DECODE A
    MESSAGE IN THE SAME DAY, AS REPORTED IN PARA. NINE, IS QUESTIONABLE.

C. LETTLFIELD DISSEM ESTATE CINCPAC CARPAC PACARE PAPET.

(Source CONSELL MYLO FONG DID HOL KMCN LAS OFICIRVICE OY JEE WOOKERAER

END OF MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

WEBOVDEVCREDO CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
FOLUTNOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL/NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)