# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 3/6/2018

### Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ

RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10103

RECORD SERIES : NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63, BOX 1

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

### Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

DATE: 11/23/1963

PAGES: 15

SUBJECTS: INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; Mandatory Review Material

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: DOC. #1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

ROUTING

| TO: | NAME AND ADDRESS                 | DATE    | INITIALS |
| --- | -------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| 1   | James Mathis, Spec. Access, NARA | 1/14/15 |          |
| 2   |                                  |         |          |
| 3   |                                  |         |          |
| 4   |                                  |         |          |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

REMARKS:

CONTROL NO. [ESC-NLJ-063/95B]

COPY 2 OF

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO. DATE

Jennifer Cuddeback/LBJ Library 1/14/15

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to those approved for the following specific activities:

![NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions]

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# THE PRESIDENT'S
# INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

23 NOVEMBER 1963
TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

1. South Vietnam

a. Vietnamese Communist efforts to discredit the new Saigon regime stayed in high gear this week.

b. The number of armed attacks was off from the high of the previous week but still some 50% above the year's weekly average.

c. These attacks have been, for the most part, small-scale efforts directed against the government's paramilitary forces in the villages. They have been designed more for their psychological impact than for immediate military gain.

d. A high volume of messages on Viet Cong military and political communications nets indicates a probable continuation of this effort.

e. The new government is responding by stepping up its own military operations. It is also setting about the hard job of re-vamping the Diem government apparatus and harnessing broader popular support for the war effort.

f. The generals have been dealing fairly effectively with

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

![Map of Venezuela]

# VENEZUELA

![Map of Venezuela with cities, rivers, and railroads]

COLOMBIA

72 70 CURAÇAO 68 66 CARIBBEAN SEA 62 60 12

Amuay (Neth.) BONAIRE

El Cardón TOBAGO

COLFO DE
VENEZUELA

Coro La Asunción

Maracaibo CARACAS:
TRINIDAD

Cabimas Cardpano
Los Teques
Barcelona Comana

LAGO DE Barquisimeto
MARACAIBO San Loreozo San Juan

Valencia of

Spain

Encontrados
Mérida San Carlos Caripito

Trujillo Guanare Maturin

Barinas El Calvario

San Fernando
de Apure

Puerto Ayacucho

El Tigre Puerto
Ordáz

COLOMBIA

++++ Selected railroad

BRAZIL

50 100 200 Miles

50 100 200 Kilometers

72 70 68 66 64 62 60

BRITISH
GUIANA

BRAZIL

Rio Negro
Rio Orinoco

6307 30

BR. GUIANA

8

6

4

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

their new responsibilities. There are, however, a few signs of dissension within this group and between it and civilian politicians.

g. One of the more ambitious and troublesome figures is the able but opportunistic General Ton That Dinh, the new Minister of Security. He has been travelling about the country spreading the idea that the coup was largely his doing and seems bent on developing his own independent base of power. He is a man to watch.

h. The new regime has also embarked on a purge of high military officers who sided with Diem during the Buddhist crisis and failed to get on the right side soon enough. (INTERCEPTS)

2. Venezuela

a. The death toll from the terrorist outburst in Caracas last Tuesday and Wednesday now stands at about 30.

b. This is the high water mark thus far in the campaign of the Castro-supported Communist extremists to disrupt the national elections a week from tomorrow.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

c. The Betancourt government has struck back hard. Its new unified command over the security forces, set up at US urging, passed this initial test with flying colors.

d. At least 500 extremists were arrested and the round-up is still going on. Their removal will hamper the Communist drive against elections in major cities like Caracas.

e. We now expect the elections to be held on schedule, a considerable achievement under the circumstances. The elections will be followed, however, by a Communist effort to prevent the March inauguration of the victor.

f. The rub here is that none of the presidential candidates commands President Betancourt's considerable assets for dealing successfully with the harsh realities of Venezuelan politics. The constitution prevents Betancourt from succeeding himself.

g. In the background, as always, looms the military, which could intervene if the president-elect shows signs of being soft on communism.

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# CUBA
Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) Sites

![map of cuba]

Mariel
Artemisa
HAVANA HAVANA EAST
Santiago de las Vegas
Remedios
SAN JULIAN
(Training site);
Isle of Pines
Holguin
Santiago de Cuba.
U.S. Naval Base

![legend of the map]
New site
Unchanged site
Estimated range

![scale bar]

34095
11 OCTOBER 1963
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

3. USSR-Cuba

a. In the past week we intercepted Cuban military messages which show that Cuban interpreters are now posted at several surface-to-air missile (SAM) sites on the island.

b. We think this means that on-site training of Cubans has begun on schedule. Field training is to last six months, after which the SAM system may be turned over to Castro.

c. In the past month some 1,500 Soviets arrived in Cuba. Most of these were probably SAM experts, sent to monitor the training.

d. Prior to their coming, we had detected no more than a few hundred Soviet military personnel entering Cuba since the October crisis last year.

e. We estimate that at least 15,000, and probably closer to 18,000, have been withdrawn in the intervening 13 months, leaving, very roughly, 4,000 to 7,000. Those remaining are for the most part advisors whose main functions are to train and supervise Cubans in the use of weapons turned over to them.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# COMMUNICATION ROUTES BETWEEN WEST GERMANY AND BERLIN

> [Figure: A map showing communication routes between West Germany and Berlin, with various cities and geographical features marked.]

![A map showing communication routes between West Germany and Berlin]

Bremen

Kiel

Stralsund

Hamburg Buechen

Lauenburg Schwanheide

Horst

Neuruppin

Prenzlau

SOVIET

Liebenwalde
Wittenberge

Havel

Wriezen

POLAND

Limit of Polish Administration

Rathenow

Stendal

Mittelland

Vorstelde Qebisfelde

Hannover

Helmstedt

Marienborn

Magdeburg

BERLIN

ZONE

Jueterbog

Cottbus

Elbe

Dessau

EAST BERLIN

Halle

FEDERAL

Walkenried

Ellrich

Kassel

REPUBLIC

Herdeshausen

Wartha

Hoeebach

Gerstungen

OF GERMANY

Probstzella

Ludwigstadt

uchhoeh

Gutenfuerst

Frankfur

Toepen

Hof

Main

CZECHOSLOVAKIA

-- Railroad

Canal

-- Autobahn

Air Corridor

-- Road

Control Points for Allied Traffic:

▲ Soviet ▲ Allied

Interzonal Border Crossing Points:

▲ East ▲ West

UNCLASSIFIED

Boundaries are not necessarily those

32166


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

4. Berlin

f. All Soviet weapons introduced into Cuba last year have been withdrawn or turned over to the Cubans. The only significant exception is the SAM system.
(Includes INTERCEPTS)

a. We have had an indication that Soviet harassment of Allied access routes to West Berlin will shift this weekend to the air corridors.

b. The Soviet man at the Berlin air traffic control center told the Allied representatives yesterday that Soviet transports would be using the air corridors for brief flights during the next five weekends.

c. Moscow has tried on a number of past occasions to assert its right to restrict Allied use of the air corridors. In early 1962, the Soviets attempted to reserve "blocks" of air space for their own use. They have since demanded that Western flights stay between stipulated altitudes, that we file flight plans in advance and provide prior notice of border-crossing times.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

5. Iraq-Syria-UAR

d. This sort of harassment stopped in the spring of 1962 when Soviet leaders became convinced that the US was interested in a serious discussion of a Berlin settlement. Moscow may hope that the threat of more of this sort of harassment will jog the US into talks on Berlin.

a. It now appears that President Arif's role in last Monday's coup in Baghdad may have been virtually that of a bystander.

b. According to our latest information, Arif was wakened early that morning and given five minutes to join up. Tahir Yahya, now prime minister, was reportedly the organizer.

c. Whatever Arif's role may have been, the coup was primarily an effort by the Iraqi Army to curtail the activities of the extreme wing of the Baath Party. The Baath is an Arab nationalist political organization, active throughout the Arab world, which has been ruling Iraq and Syria.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

d. The coup group has not thrown all Baathists out of the government; there are party members in the new cabinet.

e. Syrian Baathists have welcomed this retention of their Iraqi brothers. Their attitude springs from the recognition that the Baath in Syria cannot stay afloat without support from Iraq. Even so, we hear talk of coup plotting in Damascus.

f. The reaction of Nasir's Egypt, which passionately desires to see the Baath go under, has been exactly the opposite. Cairo has been backing off its all-out support for the coup ever since the new cabinet was announced.

(Includes INTERCEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# SOVIET EXTENDED RANGE IMPACT AREAS

> [Figure: A world map showing missile trajectories from Tyuratam, USSR to Northern and Southern Impact Areas in the Pacific Ocean. Approximate distances are marked along the trajectories.]

TYURATAM

USSR

MONGOLIA

CHINA

SEA OF OKHOTSK

VLADIVOSTOK

SEA OF JAPAN

JAPAN

KOREA

APPROX. 4900 NM

APPROX. 6500 NM

NORTHERN IMPACT AREA

Midway Islands

Johnston Island

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

AUSTRALIA

ARCTIC OCEAN

CANADA

UNITED STATES

BERING SEA

PACIFIC OCEAN

TOP SECRET DINAR

33741


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# NOTES

A. USSR New activity involving Soviet range instru-
mentation ships in the Pacific appears to be forth-coming. Three instrumentation ships left Petropav-lovsk 12 days ago and are apparently headed for the more distant Pacific impact area, 6,500 miles from Tyuratam. We are looking for extended range ICBM tests but we do not exclude a space event. There has so far been no announcement closing the area. (INTERCEPTS)

B. Congo-USSR Soviet embassy personnel have not yet left Leopoldville, but their departure is expected momentarily. They were ordered out of the country after the Congolese turned up good documentary evi-dence of their complicity in anti-government plots. One of the items taken off a Soviet diplomat the other day was a letter from an anti-Adoula leader now in Brazzaville asking for funds and arms to over-throw the Leopoldville government.

C. Britain The Labor Party scored again in the Dundee West by-election Thursday, increasing its 1959 majority of 719 to a thumping 4,955. Heartened by this, Labor is now pushing for general elections at once. Prime Minister Home is not likely to accede.

D. Ecuador The military junta which has run Ecuador since July may be about to come unstuck. We have a report that one of the less savory members of the group, air force Colonel Freiles, will try to take over full control this weekend. We are not sure of the reliability of this report, but Freiles is known to have been making motions in this direction.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SOVIET EARTH SATELLITE VEHICLES - COSMOS SERIES

1962 - 1963

SECRET

1962

|                           |                               |              |           |        |         |             |                          |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ------------ | --------- | ------ | ------- | ----------- | ------------------------ |
|                           | APPROXIMATE TIME              | LAUNCH       | PERIOD    | APOGEE | PERIGEE | ORBITAL     |                          |
|                           | OF LAUNCH (GMT)               | SITE         | (MINUTES) | (N.M.) | (N.M.)  | INCLINATION | STATUS                   |
| Cosmos 1<br>(Sputnik 13)  | 12:00:00 (EST.)<br>16 Mar '62 | Kapustin Yar | 96.35     | 529    | 117     | 49°         | Decayed<br>25 May '62    |
| Cosmos 2<br>(Sputnik 14)  | 1715:18<br>6 Apr '62          | Kapustin Yar | 102.5     | 842    | 115     | 49°         | Decayed<br>19-20 Aug '63 |
| Cosmos 3<br>(Sputnik 15)  | 0400:12<br>24 Apr '62         | Kapustin Yar | 93.8      | 389    | 124     | 49°         | Decayed<br>17 Oct.'62    |
| Cosmos 4<br>(Sputnik 16)  | 1002:56<br>26 Apr '62         | Tyuratam     | 90.6      | 178    | 161     | 65°         | Recovered<br>29 Apr 62   |
| Cosmos 5<br>(Sputnik 17)  | 0259:49<br>28 May '62         | Kapustin Yar | 102.75    | 865    | 110     | 49°         | Decayed<br>2 May '63     |
| Cosmos 6<br>(Sputnik 18)  | 1600:00 (EST.)<br>30 June '62 | Kapustin Yar | 90.6      | 194    | 148     | 49°         | Decayed<br>8 Sept '62    |
| Cosmos 7<br>(Sputnik 19)  | 0918:30<br>28 July '62        | Tyuratam     | 90.1      | 199    | 113     | 65°         | Recovered<br>1 Aug '62   |
| Cosmos 8<br>(Sputnik 22)  | 0500:00 (EST.)<br>18 Aug '62  | Kapustin Yar | 92.93     | 326    | 138     | 49°         | Decayed<br>17 Aug '63    |
| Cosmos 9<br>(Sputnik 26)  | 0940:00<br>27 Sept '62        | Tyuratam     | 90.9      | 191    | 163     | 65°         | Recovered<br>1 Oct '62   |
| Cosmos 10<br>(Sputnik 27) | 0900:01 (EST.)<br>17 Oct '62  | Tyuratam     | 90.2      | 205    | 113     | 65°         | Recovered<br>21 Oct '62  |
| Cosmos 11<br>(Sputnik 28) | 0655:00 (EST.)<br>20 Oct '62  | Kapustin Yar | 96.1      | 497    | 132     | 49°         | Decayed<br>6 June '63    |
| Cosmos 12<br>(Sputnik 32) | 0924:40<br>22-Dec '62         | Tyuratam     | 90.45     | 243    | 114     | 65°         | Recovered<br>30 Dec '62  |


1963

|                           |                               |              |       |     |     |         |                                     |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ------------ | ----- | --- | --- | ------- | ----------------------------------- |
|                           |                               |              |       |     |     |         |                                     |
| Cosmos 13<br>(Sputnik 34) | 0830:00<br>21 Mar '63         | Tyuratam     | 89.77 | 182 | 111 | 64° 58" | Recovered<br>29 Mar '63             |
| Cosmos 14<br>(Sputnik 36) | 1059:59<br>13 Apr '63         | Kapustin Yar | 92.1  | 276 | 143 | 48° 57" | Decayed<br>29 Aug '63               |
| Cosmos 15<br>(Sputnik 37) | 0829:58<br>22 Apr '63         | Tyuratam     | 89.77 | 200 | 93  | 65°     | Recovered<br>27 April '63           |
| Cosmos 16<br>(Sputnik 38) | 0850:00 (EST.)<br>28 Apr. '63 | Tyuratam     | 90.4  | 218 | 112 | 65° 01" | Recovered<br>5 May '63              |
| Cosmos 17<br>(Sputnik 39) | 0300:00 (EST.)<br>22 May '63  | Kapustin Yar | 94.8  | 425 | 140 | 49°     | In orbit, silent<br>since 31 May'63 |
| Cosmos 18<br>(Sputnik 40) | 1034:07<br>24 May '63         | Tyuratam     | 89.44 | 163 | 113 | 65° 01" | Recovered<br>2 June '63             |
| Cosmos 19<br>(Sputnik 43) | 0600:00 (EST.)<br>6 Aug '63   | Kapustin Yar | 92.2  | 280 | 146 | 49°     | In orbit,<br>transmitting           |
| Cosmos 20<br>(Sputnik 44) | 0929:58<br>18 Oct '63         | Tyuratam     | 89.55 | 168 | 111 | 65°     | Recovered<br>26 Oct '63             |
| Failure                   | 24 Oct '63                    | Kapustin Yar | -     | -   | -   | -       |                                     |
| Cosmos 21<br>(Sputnik 46) | 0623:39<br>11 Nov '63         | Tyuratam     | 88.5  | 124 | 105 | 64° 50" | Decayed<br>14 Nov '63               |
| Cosmos 22<br>(Sputnik 47) | 1034:25<br>16 Nov '63         | Tyuratam     | 90.3  | 211 | 111 | 64° 56" | Recovered<br>22 Nov '63             |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

E. Thailand Prime Minister Sarit, who suffers from
an incurable liver disease, is failing. Doctors
attending him, including one of our own, give him
no more than six months more. Sarit has attempted
to arrange for an orderly succession when he does
go. The chances of this are not good; Thai poli-
ticians and military figures are already jostling
one another for position.

F. USSR Cosmos 22, launched a week ago, was recovered
yesterday. It is the eleventh unmanned satellite to
be recovered. All recoverable satellites have been
launched from Tyuratam, the main Soviet missile test
center, and recovered after three to ten days aloft.
A series of non-recoverable satellites has been
fired from Kapustin Yar.
(See Chart)
(INTERCEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)