# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form

Date: 3/6/2018

### Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ

RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10102

RECORD SERIES : NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

### Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

DATE: 11/30/1963

PAGES: 11

SUBJECTS: INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; Mandatory Review Material

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: DOC. #8



v9.1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ROUTING

| TO: | NAME AND ADDRESS                 | DATE    | INITIALS |
| --- | -------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| 1   | James Mathis, spec. Access, NARA | 1/14/15 |          |
| 2   |                                  |         |          |
| 3   |                                  |         |          |
| 4   |                                  |         |          |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |     |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- | --- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |     |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |     |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |     |

REMARKS:

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO. DATE

Jennifer Cuddelback, LBJ Library 1/14/15

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

CONTROL NO. [SC-NLJ-089/93 B]

COPY 2 OF

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to those approved for the following specific activities:

![NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions]

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# THE PRESIDENT'S
INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

30 NOVEMBER 1963
TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

1. Venezuela

a. Election campaigning ended at midnight, but boosters for the several candidates continued to mill about streets of Caracas in defiance of terrorist threats to shoot anyone who ventured out for the next three days.

b. The terrorists, it seems, were all but drowned out by the carnival air.

c. The FALN, meanwhile, is trying to bargain off Colonel Chenault for as high a price as it can, demanding variously release of all its comrades, of all women detained by the government, and of the six hijackers who have been returned from Trinidad to custody in Venezuela.

2. Sino-Soviet dispute

a. The Chinese Communists will have nothing to do with the idea of bilateral talks with the Soviets under present circumstances.

b. Chinese party Secretary General Teng Hsiao-ping, one of the select few in Peiping's ruling circle, recently told a group of visiting Latin Americans that such a meeting could accomplish nothing.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

c. Teng put the issue of another meeting of world Communist parties even deeper into limbo by saying that Peiping would be in favor only when assured of the support of a majority of the world parties.

d. Moscow, for its part, has apparently stopped thinking about another gathering of world Communist party representatives.

e. The feelers it put out after the conclusion of the test-ban treaty were received coldly by some of the fraternal parties. They felt such a meeting could only make matters worse with the Chinese.

f. Indeed, Peiping saw this to be Moscow's purpose, and when the idea failed to take hold, the Chinese took it to be a setback for Khrushchev personally.

g. Their reaction to Khrushchev's subsequent call for a cessation of open argument was to press the offensive, and this they have been doing in roundly abusive terms since.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

## TOP SECRET DINAR
6 SEPTEMBER 1963
33881

![map of USSR, China, and the Kamchatka Peninsula, which indicates the location of the submarine ballistic missile launches in the Soviet Far East.]

> [Figure: A map of USSR, China, and the Kamchatka Peninsula, showing the location of Klyuchi Impact Area, Petropavlovsk and Launch Positions. Also, there is a sub-map indicating the Area of Main Map.]

![G class submarine]

> [Figure: "G"-Class Submarine.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

3. USSR

h. The forthcoming Afro-Asian visits by Chou En-lai and Chen Yi have awakened suspicions that the Chinese are in hot pursuit of a second Bandung-type conference--a more rewarding enterprise from their point of view.

a. Yesterday and on Thursday, we detected what we believe to have been operational training launches of standard 350 nautical mile sub- marine-based ballistic missiles.

b. Two and possibly four mis- siles were fired from submarines based in the Petropavlovsk area to the impact area at Klyuchi.

c. Seven similar instances have been detected previously this year, and there may have been others. (INTERCEPTS)

4. Kenya -
   Communist Bloc

a. The Soviet Bloc will soon gain an important propaganda outlet in Nairobi, communications hub for East Africa.

b. Plans are for a state- controlled news agency to be set up by the Kenyan government when it

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

5. Czechoslovakia-
   USSR
   achieves independence on 12 December. This will fall under the jurisdiction of communications minister Oneko, who has well developed contacts within the Soviet Bloc.

c. TASS has already agreed to equip the new agency, and Kenyan requests for further financial and techincal help are being discussed in Prague and Moscow.

d. Kenyan journalists have been training in Prague and, on return, will find ready employment in the new agency.

a. Czech President Novotny returned from Moscow on Thursday after signing a renewal (for another 20 years) of the treaty of friendship and mutual assistance.

b. He apparently got little else out of Khrushchev. The final communique was conspicuously cool.

c. There were no Soviet concessions, nor were there the usual references to Czech "progress" or to public support for Novotny's leadership.

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

6. South Vietnam

a. The first suicide by burning to occur under the new regime was witnessed today by bystanders at a crowded intersection in Saigon where a young girl went up in flames.

b. A note she left behind said she was protesting the war of Vietnamese against Vietnamese. At the intersection are three villas which house the ICC delegations.

c. There were no Buddhist overtones.

d. Some think the Viet Cong encouraged her, but if they did, they did not write her script. They would have said it is the Americans who are fighting the Vietnamese.

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

![map of southeast asia indicating location of vietnam]

# South Vietnam ARMY CORPS BOUNDARIES

NORTH
VIETNAM
* Quang Tri
* Hue
* Da Nang
* Quang Nam

I Corps
* Quang Ngai

II Corps
* Kontum
* Pleiku
* An Khe
* Qui Nhon
* Cheo Reo
* Song Cau
* Tuy Hoa
* Ban Me Thuot
* Nha Trang

III Corps
* Da Lat
* Loc Ninh
* Tay Ninh
* Phan Rang
* Phuoc Vinh
* Phan Thiet
* SAIGON
* Capital Military District
* My Tho
* Cho Lo
* Vung Tau

SOUTH
CHINA
SEA

IV Corps
* Isle de Phu Quoc
* Can Tho
* Rach Gia

GULF OF SIAM

* Quan Long
  (Ca Mau)
* Bac Lieu

SECRET

STATUTE MILES
150


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

## NOTES

A. South Vietnam Plans are now afoot to shuffle South Vietnam's Corps commanders so that General Khanh, considered by General Harkins to be the best of the lot, will take over in the crucial delta (IV Corps) area. General Dinh, the ambitious Minister of Security, is still resisting pressure to relinquish command of the III Corps area, and is not involved in the current shuffle.

B. Cuba-USSR There are about 8,000 Soviets in Cuba, 5,000 of these military, according to a bloc official in close touch with Soviets in Havana. The figures are close to our own estimate of 4,000 to 7,000. Some withdrawals continue.

C. Cambodia-Vietnam Sihanouk seems to feel that cutting off his nose to spite his face was not enough. Now he says he will formally recognize North Vietnam if the US does not silence the Khmer Serei radio. South Vietnam will cut Cambodia's primary access to international markets via the Mekong river if he does. (INTERCEPT)

D. Indonesia-Cambodia Sukarno apparently plans to go to Cambodia on an official visit following his trip to Manila. The Cambodian ambassador in Djakarta has advised Phnom Penh that Sukarno plans to leave for Manila on 6 December and directly from there for Phnom Penh on the 10th. He will stay three days. (INTERCEPT)

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

E. Coal and Steel Community Coal and Steel community
members at their next meeting on Monday will prob-
ably vote to raise community steel tariffs by an
average of nine percent. This would, bring the tar-
iffs of each member into line with Italy's, the
highest in the community. Only the Dutch oppose the
idea.

F. British Guiana - Cuba GIMPEX, trading arm and
source of funds for Jagan's party, has worked out a
deal to supply the country's major electric utility
next year with fuel oil from Cuba. Texaco and Esso
have been the traditional suppliers.

G. Brazil-US A press report from Rio cites "well in-
formed sources" to the effect that Goulart plans
soon to invite Mrs. Kennedy to visit Brazil so that
Brazil can pay her the honors which it had planned
to render the late President.

H. Cuba-Morocco A three-man Cuban delegation is on
its way to Morocco to try to patch up relations
broken by Morocco because of Cuba's assistance to
the Algerians in their border war. (INTERCEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

DOCUMENT OF INTEREST

The effect in France of the President's death.

For The President Only - Top Secret


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)