# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form
Date: 8/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ

RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10060

RECORD SERIES: NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. I, BOX 32

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 12/18/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: DOC. #158


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY CUBA

REPORT NO. TDCSDB-3/658, 582

SUBJECT CUBAN GOVERNMENT POLICY TOWARDS PRESIDENT JOHNSON'S ADMINISTRATION

DATE DISTR. 18 DECEMBER 1963

DATE OF INFO. LATE NOVEMBER 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

PLACE & DATE ACO. 16 DECEMBER 1963

REFERENCES IN 82930

APPRAISAL THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE A HIGH-LEVEL CUBAN DIPLOMAT IN WESTERN EUROPE WHO HAS BEEN A FAIRLY RELIABLE REPORTER OF POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC INFORMATION.

1. FIDEL CASTRO WAS VERY UPSET OVER THE CHANGE IN THE UNITED STATES ADMINISTRATION BROUGHT ABOUT BY PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION.

THE TOP CUBAN LEADERSHIP WAS SURE PRESIDENT KENNEDY WOULD NOT INVADE CUBA AND THEY WERE CONVINCED THAT THE POLICY OF HIS ADMINISTRATION FOR ECONOMIC BLOCKADE AND INTERNAL SUBVERSION AGAINST CUBA WOULD NOT OVERTHROW THE RÉGIME.

2. THE PRESENT POLICY OF THE CUBAN GOVT., ON ORDERS FROM CASTRO, IS NOT TO ATTACK PRESIDENT JOHNSON IN PUBLIC OR DO ANYTHING TO IRRITATE HIM. ACCORDING TO CUBAN GOVT. LEADERS, CASTRO WANTS TO WAIT AND SEE WHAT PRESIDENT JOHNSON SAYS AND DOES ABOUT CUBA,

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
BACKGROUND USE ONLY

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC XXX OCI ONE OCR ORR BMX XXBI

STATE/DIR REPCINCLANT I&NS TREASURY

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

NW 50955 DocId:32282900 Page 2

(15-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/ NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/
(When Filled In) NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

TDCS DB-3/658,582 IN 82930
PAGE 2

AND GIVE HIM. AN OPPORTUNITY TO IMPROVE, IF HE FEELS. SO INCLINED,
RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES.

FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT.

(END OF MESSAGE)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/
NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

NW 50955 DocId: 32282900 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)