2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 3/6/2018

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10096
RECORD SERIES: NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63, BOX 1
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

DATE: 11/25/1963
PAGES: 11

SUBJECTS: INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; Mandatory Review Material
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: DOC. #3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

ROUTING

| TO: | NAME AND ADDRESS                        | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | --------------------------------------- | ---- | -------- |
| 1   | James Mathis, Sper. Access, NARA V14/15 |      |          |
| 2   |                                         |      |          |
| 3   |                                         |      |          |
| 4   |                                         |      |          |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY  | PREPARE REPLY   |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH      | RECOMMENDATION  |
| COMMENT     | FILE          | RETURN          |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION   | SIGNATURE       |

REMARKS:

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS. AND PHONE NO. DATE

Jennifer Cudde back, UBS Library 1/14/15

CONTROL NO. [SC-NLJ-083/93B]

COPY 2 OF

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# THE PRESIDENT'S

# INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

25 NOVEMBER 1963
TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

1. South Vietnam

a. Vietnamese Communist forces kept up their high post-coup level of activity over the weekend.

b. The most significant action was an attack early yesterday morning against a US special forces training camp some 30 miles from Saigon.

c. When the smoke cleared after a sharp fight, four US soldiers were missing and at least 35 South Vietnamese were dead.

d. Late yesterday morning, the Viet Cong shot down two aircraft supporting a government operation in the extreme south, and damaged twelve more. Two more Americans are missing in this action.

e. Back in Saigon, the new regime's troubles with the ambitious General Ton That Dinh continue.

f. He is still angling to get control of the important strategic hamlet program and has yet to give up command of the Third Corps, which the generals assigned to another of their number earlier in the month. This corps is of particular significance in that it surrounds Saigon.

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

![map of Malaysia and surrounding countries]

BURMA CAMBODIA South Vietnam South China Sea

THAILAND Manila PHILIPPINES

MALAYSIA BRUNEI Sabah

Kuala Lumpur Sarawak Celebes Sea

SINGAPORE MALAYSIA BORNEO

SUMATRA CELEBES

INDONESIA

INDIAN Djakarta Java Sea Banda Sea

OCEAN TIMOR

MALAYSIA

CONFIDENTIAL

![Scale] 0 Miles 1000

AUSTRALIA

631124 34176


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

2. Indonesia-Malaysia

a. Sukarno is beefing up the subversive aspects of his confrontation campaign against Malaysia.

b. Intercepted Indonesian messages indicate that regular army units will shortly begin infiltration operations across the border into Sarawak and Sabah.

c. Seven thousand regular army troops in Indonesian Borneo, the messages show, are getting an intensified course in guerrilla tactics. This training is to be completed next month.

d. Other messages speak of the arrival, beginning today, of a battalion of regulars from West Java. (INTERCERPTS throughout)

3. Venezuela

a. The weekend was marred only by sporadic and minor acts of terrorism in several cities. Government security forces have the situation generally under control.

b. The Venezuelan Air Force is stepping up its efforts to track down and destroy intruder aircraft. The Venezuelans are convinced that planes have been ferrying supplies to pro-Castro guerrillas in the mountains of the northwest.

For The President Only - Top Secret

(Cont'd)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

![map of Venezuela and surrounding countries, including Trinidad and Tobago, Curacao, and Bonaire]
> [Figure: Map of Venezuela and surrounding countries]

## VENEZUELA

72 70 CURAÇAO 68 66 64 CARIBBEAN SEA 62 60

12 12
(Neth.) BONAIRE GRENADA

Amuay El Cardón (U.K.) TOBAGO
Coro La Asunción
LAGO DE San Fellbe Cardpano
10 MARACA San Lorenzo Barquisimeto Cumana 10
Encontrados Guanare Barcelona Puerto La Cruz
Menda Barinas Caracas Caripito
San Juan Maturin
San Carlos de los Morros Maracay
El Calvario
San Fernando de Apure Puerto Ayacucho BRITISH
GUIANA
COLOMBIA BRAZIL

50 50 100 6309195 200 Miles
0 100 200 Kilometers
72 70 68 66 64 62 60


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

4. Iraq

a. The air of tension in Bagh-dad dissipated somewhat after the government lifted the curfew and once again permitted private vehicles on the streets.

b. Neither the city nor its new rulers are, however, at ease. Troops are still very much in evi-dence.

c. The new regime apparently is not convinced that the hard core of the Baath Party and its paramili-tary supporters have been put down for good.

c. The Betancourt government has scheduled a press conference tomorrow to break the story that a three-ton cache of Cuban arms has been unearthed. A formal accusation against Cuba is to be made before the Organization of American States a week from today.
(Includes INTERCEPTS)

5. Syria

a. We have information that a showdown between the moderate and extremist factions of the ruling Baath Party in Syria is fast approach-ing.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

6. Italy

b. A clandestine source identifies Prime Minister Hafiz as the leading figure on the side of moderation. General Umran heads the doctrinaire extremists.

c. It was a split along the same lines that brought about the Baath Party's fall from power in Iraq.

a. Premier-designate Moro expects that the program for a "center-left" coalition government will be approved today by the four parties involved.

b. Details of the foreign policy planks are not yet available, but they were drafted with the thought that the death of President Kennedy makes it more important for Italy to play an active role within the Western alliance.

c. After the program has been approved, the final selection of a cabinet can be undertaken. This could take the rest of the week.

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

![photo of map of Yemen and surrounding countries]

UAR (EGYPT)

JORDAN

IRAQ

KUWAIT

SAUDI ARABIA

RIYADH

SAUDI ARABIA

YEMEN

> [Figure] Zoomed-in map showing place names and boundaries within the region.
> 
> *   **Major road**
> *   **Other road or track**

UNCLASSIFIED

Abha"

Qizan

Aswan

Ras Banas

Yenbo

Medina

Jidda

Mecca

Taif

Khamis Mushait

Najran

Wadi- al Jawl

Umran

Marib

Sadah

Harad

Maydi

Abs Hajjah

Raudha

Sirwah

SANA

Jihannah

Harib

Al Hudaydah

TAIZZ

Mocha

ETHIOPIA

FRENCH SOMALILAND

Ibb

Qatabah

Al Bayda

Ad Dali

ADEN PROTECTORATE

ADEN

Al Hudaydah

TAIZZ

Al Bayda

ADEN PROTECTORATE

ADEN

GOLF OF ADEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

7. UAR-Yemen-
   Egypt

a. The Saudis told our embassy in Jidda yesterday that a Saudi village near the Yemeni border was attacked Thursday by Egyptian aircraft.

b. It was the second time this month that Yemeni-based Egyptian aircraft have struck across the border into Saudi Arabia.

c. As in the previous cases, the Saudis have lodged a formal complaint with the UN Observation Mission.
(Includes INTERCEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

## NOTES

A. Oswald Press stories to the effect that Lee Harvey
Oswald recently visited Mexico City are true, accord-
ing to our information. Oswald visited both the
Cuban and the Soviet embassies on 28 September. He
was trying, we are told, to arrange for visas so
that he could travel to the USSR via Havana. He
returned to the US on 3 October.

B. Brazil A new round of military promotions and re-
assignments will be made public today. The present
instability of the Brazilian political scene is re-
flected in the numerous reports of coup plots which
this event has precipitated.

C. USSR At last report the three Soviet range in-
strumentation ships were dead in the water 500 miles
south of Johnston Island, roughly the same position
they occupied for last year's extended range ICBM
shots. No announcement closing this area of the
Pacific to shipping has been made and there is no
activity as yet at the Tyuratam missile test center,
but we look for some action in the next few days.
(INTERCEPTS)

D. Algeria We have a report from a good clandestine
source that a group of army officers is plotting
with Defense Minister Boumedienne to overthrow Ben
Bella. A growing estrangement between the two has
been apparent for some time, but this is the first
good indication that Boumedienne is making common
cause with those who wish to turn Ben Bella out of
office.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

E. Australia - Communist China Peiping has signed contracts for just over one million tons of Australian grain to be delivered early next year. We had been expecting the Chinese Communists to enter the market, since they had another mediocre grain crop this year. Peiping has been buying close to five million tons of grain for the past several years.

F. Congo We hear that the Soviet Embassy in Leopoldville had booked 75 places on a flight to Brussels last Saturday. There is still no information on whether any Soviet Embassy officials have actually departed, however.

G. Berlin There was no new harassment of Allied access routes to Berlin over the weekend. A total of 16 flares were fired last evening near Tempelhof Airfield, but we connect these with Communist efforts to prevent escapes from East Berlin. East German police were observed stringing barbed wire in the same area a short time later.

H. Laos The neutralists claim to have made significant gains in their limited offensive in the Vang Vieng area. They have not, however, been able to dislodge the Pathet Lao from positions within artillery range of the town's airport. (Includes INTERCEPTS)

For The President Only - Top Secret


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)