# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 8/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ

RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10061

RECORD SERIES: NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. 1, BOX 32

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 12/13/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: DOC. #170

v9.1

NW 50955 DocId:32282901 Page 1

26


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM IN.ORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

COUNTRY CUBA

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/658,469

SUBJECT ALERT STATUS OF CUBAN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS, AS RESULT OF THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

DATE DISTR. 13 DECEMBER 1963

DATE OF INFO. 9 DECEMBER 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE!

PLACE & DATE ACO. 9 DECEMBER 1963

REFERENCES IN 79459

FIELD REPORT NO.

APPRAISAL THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A SENIOR CUBAN DIPLOMAT WHO IS AN ASTUTE OBSERVER AND HAS DEMONSTRATED MATURITY, DISCERNMENT, AND RELIABILITY IN HIS PAST REPORTING.

1. ABOUT 2 DAYS AFTER THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY, CUBAN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS ABROAD BEGAN TO RECEIVE A SERIES OF MESSAGES PLACING THEM ON A SPECIAL ALERT STATUS. THESE MESSAGES WERE OBVIOUSLY DUE TO APPREHENSION BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT THAT THE CIRCUMSTANCES SURROUND ING THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY MIGHT LEAD TO HOSTILE ACTIVITY DIRECTED AGAINST THE MISSIONS. THE DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WERE EXHORTED TO EXERCISE EXTREME VIGILANCE, TO MOUNT A NIGHT-AND-DAY WATCH OF MISSION PREMISES, TO BE CERTAIN THAT THERE WERE "NO COMPROMISING

BUNDY-SMITH
ALEXANDER
BELK
BERECK
CHASE
DANGEMAN
ICEL
HORRESTAL
JOENSON
KILDUFF.
KLEIN
KOMER
SAUNDERS
SCHLESINGE
SMITH, WM, Y.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

NW 50955 DocId:32282901 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION-CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY TDCSDB-3/658,469
IN 79459
PAGE 2

"DOCUMENTS ON THE PREMISES," AND TO BE ON GUARD AGAINST HOSTILE
PROVOCATIONS.

2. ONE CHIEF OF MISSION, WHO, FOLLOWING HIS USUAL
   PRACTICE, REQUESTED BY TELEPHONE PERMISSION TO ACCEPT A
   LONG-STANDING INVITATION TO VISIT A COUNTRY FRIENDLY TO
   CUBA, WAS TOLD THAT HE MUST FORMALLY SUBMIT HIS REQUEST
   BY CABLE. HE DID SO ON 29 NOVEMBER, BUT IT WAS NOT UNTIL
   6 DECEMBER THAT HE RECEIVED THE AUTHORITY TO QUIT HIS POST.

3. AS OF 9 DECEMBER THERE HAD BEEN NO INDICATION FROM
   HAVANA THAT THE ALERT ORDER WAS TO BE CONSIDERED REVOKED.

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT.

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD/
CONTROLLED DISSEM/BACKGROUND USE ONLY
SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32282901 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)