# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 3/6/2018

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10105
RECORD SERIES : NSF, CF, USSR, VOL. 21, BOX 226
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: SPECIAL REPORT--WEEKLY REVIEW

DATE: 09/13/1968
PAGES: 11

SUBJECTS: INTELLIGENCE REPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; Mandatory Review Material
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1994
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: DOC. #57


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)

ROUTING

| TO: | NAME AND ADDRESS                | DATE    | INITIALS |
| --- | ------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| 1   | James Mathis, Spec Access, NARA | 1/14/15 |          |
| 2   |                                 |         |          |
| 3   |                                 |         |          |
| 4   |                                 |         |          |

|             |              |                |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

REMARKS:

CONTROL NO. SC No.00787/68B [B]

COPY 3 OF

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO. DATE

Jennifer Cuddeback, LBJ Libray 1/14/15

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to
those approved for the following specific activities:

![National Security Information Logo]

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION
Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET
(Security Classification)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Top Secret
No Foreign Dissem

![seal of the Central Intelligence Agency]

DIRECTORATE OF
INTELLIGENCE

The Developing Soviet Submarine Force

Special Report
WEEKLY REVIEW

Handle via Comint Channels

Top Secret
1
13 September 1968
SC No.00787/68B


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# TOP SECRET

SPECIAL REPORTS are supplements to the Current Intelligence Weeklies issued by the Office of Current Intelligence. The Special Reports are published separately to permit more comprehensive treatment of a subject. They are prepared by the Office of Current Intelligence, the Office of Economic Research, the Office of Strategic Research, and the Directorate of Science and Technology. Special Reports are coordinated as appropriate among the Directorates of CIA but, except for the normal substantive exchange with other agencies at the working level, have not been coordinated outside CIA unless specifically indicated.

WARNING

The SPECIAL REPORT contains classified information affecting the national security of the United States within the meaning of the espionage laws, US Code Title 18, Sections 793, 794, and 798.

THIS DOCUMENT MUST BE KEPT IN COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE CHANNELS AT ALL TIMES

The SPECIAL REPORT is to be seen only by US personnel especially indoctrinated and authorized to receive COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE information; its security must be maintained in accordance with COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE REGULATIONS.

No action is to be taken on any COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE which may be contained herein, regardless of the advantages to be gained, unless such action is first approved by the Director of Central Intelligence.

DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

The SPECIAL REPORT MUST NOT BE RELEASED TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS and must be handled within the framework of specific dissemination control provisions of DCID 1/7.

> [Figure] GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# TOP SECRET TRINE
No Foreign Dissem

## THE DEVELOPING SOVIET SUBMARINE FORCE

The Soviet naval leadership, commanding the world's largest submarine fleet, is undertaking a program to increase the operational capabilities of the force. Four new classes of submarines-three torpedo-attack classes and a new Polaris-type missile-firing submarine-are in production, and several older classes are being improved and reconditioned. In addition, since the early 1960s the range, number, and duration of open ocean patrols by Soviet submarines have been generally increasing.

TOP SECRET TRINE

Page1. SPECIAL REPORT 13 Sep 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# TOP SECRET TRINE
No Foreign Dissem

## Fleet Modernization

The new Polaris-type submarine--designated the Y-class--carries 16 SS-N-6 ballistic missiles with ranges of some 1,500 miles. These 425-foot-long submarines are currently being built at Severodvinsk in the Soviet Northern Fleet area. The first units should be operational soon and 40 or more could be in service by the mid-1970s.

Two new classes of nuclear-powered attack submarines are also being built--one at Leningrad shipyard and the other at Gorkiy. At least one of these classes probably was specifically designed to engage enemy submarines. A third class of attack submarine is under construction in the Soviet Far East; its means of propulsion is not yet known.

In addition to these new construction programs, the Soviets are reconditioning many of their older classes of submarines. There are no indications that the Soviets intend to introduce a new class of cruise-missile submarine, however, and construction of these submarines is apparently ending as the Soviets approach their desired force level for these anticar-rier units.

## Operational Implications

Strategic targets in the middle of the US are beyond reach of the 650-mile SS-N-5 carried on the older ballistic-missile submarines, but are within range of the SS-N-6 carried on the Y-class. By the mid-1970s, Soviet ballistic-missile submarines may present a strategic threat comparable to that of the US Polaris fleet and be able to operate with less risk of detection than earlier classes of Soviet missile submarines.

The introduction of the new classes of attack submarines suggests that the Soviets are attempting to come to grips with the Polaris threat. The Soviets apparently are counting on their submarines to help blunt that threat by attempting to destroy Polaris submarines before they cân launch their missiles.

Soviet ballistic-missile submarines frequently patrol within range of US Polaris bases and could destroy a number of Polaris submarines by attacking these bases. The new Soviet attack submarines may be able to locate and destroy a few Polaris submarines in confined waters through which those submarines frequently must pass, such as the Irish Sea or the Sicilian Straits. Combined operations with new Soviet surface ships, such as the Moskva-class helicopter carriers and Kresta- and Kashin-class guided-missile ships, will provide some antisubmarine capability in the ocean approaches

Page 2 TOP SECRET TRINE SPECIAL REPORT 13 Sep 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# TOP SECRET TRINE

## The Soviet Submarine Force

![map of soviet submarine force]

|                   | Northern Fleet | Baltic Fleet | Black Sea Fleet | Pacific Fleet |
| ----------------- | -------------- | ------------ | --------------- | ------------- |
| Nuclear-powered   |                |              |                 |               |
| Ballistic missile | 9              | 0            | 0               | 1             |
| Cruise missile    | 16             | 0            | 0               | 17            |
| Attack            | 14             | 0            | 0               | 4             |
| Diesel-powered    |                |              |                 |               |
| Ballistic missile | 18             | 1            | 1               | 8             |
| Cruise missile    | 11             | 3            | 5               | 6             |
| Attack            | 91             | 64           | 32              | 65            |

• Fleet Headquarters

BALLISTIC MISSILE SUBMARINES

> [Figure] Illustration of a Y-Class submarine, a nuclear-powered vessel that carries 16 SS-N-6 missiles in its hull, measures 425 feet in length, and is currently being deployed.

Y-CLASS

Nuclear powered
Carries 16 SS-N-6 missiles in hull
425 feet long
Now being deployed

> [Figure] Illustration of an H-Class submarine, a nuclear-powered vessel that carries three SS-N-4 or SS-N-5 missiles in its sail, measures 380 feet in length, and has 9 units in service.

H-CLASS

Nuclear powered
Carries three SS-N-4 or SS-N-5 missiles in sail
380 feet long
9 in service

> [Figure] Illustration of a G-Class submarine, a diesel-powered vessel that carries three SS-N-4 or SS-N-5 missiles in its sail, measures 320 feet in length, and has 22 units in service.

G-CLASS

Diesel powered
Carries three SS-N-4 or SS-N-5 missiles in sail
320 feet long
22 in service

> [Figure] Illustration of a Z-Conversion Class submarine, a diesel-powered vessel that carries two SS-N-4 missiles in its sail, measures 295 feet in length, and has 6 units in service.

Z-CONVERSION CLASS

Diesel powered
Carries two SS-N-4 missiles in sail
295 feet long
6 in service

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TOP SECRET TRINE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# TOP SECRET TRINE
No Foreign Dissem

## CLASSES OF SOVIET SUBMARINES

Nuclear Powered Diesel Powered

Ballistic Missile Y Ballistic Missile G
H Z Conversion
Cruise Missile E-1 Cruise Missile J
E-11 W Conversion
Attack N Attack F
V Z
C R
One New Class "B" W

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
RELEASABLE TO UK AND CANADA

to the USSR and in the Mediter-
ranean.

## Deployment Patterns

Soviet submarines are as- signed to each of the four fleets--Northern, Pacific, Baltic, and Black Sea. Because of the restricted exits from the Baltic and Black Seas, however, most of the missile- equipped units and all of the nuclear-powered units are based in ice-free ports of the Kola Peninsula (Northern Fleet) and in the Pacific Fleet.

The Soviets are apparently trying to reduce the dispropor- tion between the two major fleets--the Northern and the Pacific. Although the North- ern Fleet still holds the favored position, several nuclear sub- marines have been transferred under the polar ice to the Pa- cific and a number of modern diesel units have joined the Northern Sea Route convoy in past summers.

The Baltic Fleet is re- sponsible for protecting Soviet coastal waters and for furnish- ing diesel submarines for pa- trols off the US Polaris base at Holy Loch. Moscow has also begun sending Baltic Fleet sub- marines to the Mediterranean to take some of the strain off the Northern Fleet, which has been furnishing most of the units operating there. There are no nuclear submarines in the Bal- tic, and the few cruise-missile units there operate in coastal waters.

The Montreux Convention of 1936 places severe limita- tions on the passage of Soviet submarines through the Turkish Straits. Black Sea based submarines can pass into the Mediterranean only if they are headed for another fleet area for repairs. For this reason, only older diesel units are based in the Black Sea. Once in the Mediterranean, however, these units operate there for about 60 days on their way to and from Baltic shipyards.

## Patrol Activity

Most of the increase in the level of Soviet submarine operations during the past year is attributable to the station- ing of a force of six to ten submarines--mostly diesel attack units--in the Mediterranean since

TOP SECRET TRINE
Page 4 SPECIAL REPORT 13 Sep 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# TOP SECRET TRINE
No Foreign Dissem

June 1967; at least one nuclear unit is usually included in the force. There was an over- all increase of nearly 20 percent in the number of Soviet submarine patrols beyond local fleet operating areas in 1967, but if the trend noted so far this year continues, fewer sub- marines will deploy in 1968. Patrols this year have been of longer duration, however, thereby resulting in more submarine time at sea.

No confirmed patrols by H-class ballistic-missile units have been noted since late 1966, and there have beenperiods during the past year when no Soviet ballistic-missile submarines have been on patrol in either the Atlantic or Pacific. The G-class is the only such submarine now being used for mid- ocean patrols.

Conversion and overhaul of first-generation ballistic-

## Soviet
## Submarine Deployments
## 1965-1968

Total 116

Total 138

Total 102

Total 114

> [Figure] A bar graph illustrating Soviet submarine deployments from 1965 to 1968. The graph displays the total number of deployments, broken down by year and naval fleet (North, Baltic, Black, and Pacific). In 1965, the North fleet had 41 deployments, the Baltic 16, and the Black 2. In 1966, the North fleet had 69 deployments, the Baltic 33, and the Black 0. In 1967, the North fleet had 82 deployments, the Baltic 34, and the Black 2. In 1968, the North fleet had 60 deployments, the Baltic 15, the Black 9, and the Pacific 6.

77

15

20

16

9

14

2

2

10

41

43

2

0

1965

1966

1967

1968

NORTH BALTIC BLACK PACIFIC

Number of deployed units, not including routine interfleet transfers or fleet exercise participants.

TOP SECRET TRINE
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
RELEASABLE TO UK AND CANADA

91946 9-68 CIA

TOP SECRET TRINE

Page 5 SPECIAL REPORT 13 Sep 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# TOP SECRET TRINE
No Foreign Dissem

missile submarines and the re- assignment of their crews to new Y-class units have probably been at least partly responsible for the decline in ballistic- missile submarine activity. In addition, the loss of a G-class submarine in the Pacific in mid- March apparently resulted in a three-month standdown in patrols by these units. That incident probably caused the Soviets to implement new safety measures. Moreover, as the Soviets prepare to deploy new Y-class submarines, they may be reassessing the military value of sending their diesel-powered units into the mid-Atlantic and mid-Pacific patrol areas.

Until mid-1967, E-class cruise-missile submarines con- ducted regular patrols in the Atlantic. Since June 1967, patrol activity in the Atlantic has diminished; however, a series of single E-class units has been almost continuously present in the Mediterranean. Some of the submarines on re- cent patrols have also engaged in other activities such as hydroacoustic research and support of naval training ma- neuvers. J-class diesel-powered cruise-missile submarines ap- parently have been used primarily for peripheral defense. In late 1966, the first of these units to venture into the Mediterranean broke down and limped back to its base in the Northern Fleet. Some of the older W-class units are equipped to launch cruise missiles, but these, too, operate only near Soviet shores and probably are being retired from service.

Recent patrols by diesel attack submarines in the Medi- terranean have been extended to as long as six months through the use of Arab and Yugoslav ports for upkeep, reprovision- ing, and crew recreation. Pre- vious patrols by Soviet sub- marines in the Mediterranean had lasted less than two months.

Last year, a submarine support group operated for nearly six months off the west coast of Africa in a program to study the feasibility of submarine operations from a floating base. The group consisted of a sub- marine tender and a missile supply ship, and was assisted briefly by a survey vessel and two intelligence collection ships. Several other ships provided logistic support. Four submarines participated in the group's operations. One of these--a nuclear-powered unit-- was away from home waters for more than six months.

Once the new ballistic-mis- sile submarines go on patrol, the Soviets may make greater use of such floating support bases on the high seas. Floating base ships would be vulnerable in

TOP SECRET TRINE
Page 6 SPECIAL REPORT 13 Sep 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# TOP SECRET TRINE

![map with patrol area locations and nm ranges]

# Soviet Submarine-Launched Missiles

# TOP SECRET TRINE

| US DESIGNATION     | IOC           | OPERATIONAL RANGE | WARHEAD WEIGHT   | REMARKS                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------ | ------------- | ----------------- | ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CRUISE MISSILE     |               |                   |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| SS-N-3             | 1961          | 250 NM            | 1,000-2,000 lbs. | Carried by E-I and E-II-class nuclear submarines and by J-class diesel units. A few W-class diesel torpedo attack submarines were modified to carry this missile. Surface launched. |
| BALLISTIC MISSILES |               |                   |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| SS-N-4             | 1960          | 300 NM            | About 2,200 lbs  | Carried by most G-class diesel submarines and by some H-class nuclear units. A few Z-class diesel torpedo attack submarines were modified to carry this missile. Surface launched.  |
| SS-N-5             | 1963          | 650 NM            | 1,600-2,400 lbs  | Carried by most H-class nuclear submarines and by some G-class diesel units. Underwater launched.                                                                                   |
| SS-N-6             | Probably 1968 | 1,500 NM          | 700-1,700 lbs    | Probably intended for the new Y-class nuclear submarines. These 16-tube Polaris-type units first went into service in mid-1968.                                                     |

SECRET
NO FOREIGN
DISSEM

# TOP SECRET TRINE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# TOP SECRET TRINE
No Foreign Dissem

wartime, but ballistic-missile submarines operating from such bases south of the Azores, for example, could remain on-station off the US coast longer than could units deployed from the Kola area. Cruise-missile and attack submarines would also profit from mid-ocean bases, reducing the number of long transits to and from patrol areas.

The USSR recently has achieved several technological advances in submarine support. New and more powerful radio transmitters serving submarines on distant patrols are now in operation in the USSR. A navigation satellite system currently being tested may permit Soviet submarines to determine their positions with greater accuracy even in the most unfavorable weather and sea conditions. Hydroacoustic research ships have conducted surveys in the past few years in areas of the Atlantic and Pacific where the Soviets might hope to detect Polaris submarines and in the Canary Island Basin and Philippine Sea where they may intend to operate their own submarines. (TOP SECRET TRINE NO FOREIGN DISSEM EXCEPT UK AND CANADA)

* * *

TOP SECRET TRINE
Page 8 SPECIAL REPORT 13 Sep 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

![photo of a document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 3/6/2018

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ

RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10105

RECORD SERIES: NSF, CF, USSR, VOL. 21, BOX 226

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE: SPECIAL REPORT--WEEKLY REVIEW

DATE: 09/13/1968

PAGES: 11

SUBJECTS: INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; Mandatory Review Material

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: DOC. #57


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)