2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/26/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10012
RECORD SERIES: NSF, UNARRANGED FILES, LA/CUBAN SUBVERSION, BOX 5
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 02/18/1963
PAGES: 7
SUBJECTS: NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED
DOCUMENT TYPE: DRAFT BRIEFING NOTES
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW:
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

DRAFT BRIEFING NOTES

18 February 1963

# CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

I. Introductory Statement

The public pronouncements of Cuban leaders, the daily record of events in Latin America, and reports from our intelligence sources within Communist and other left-extremist elements throughout this hemisphere all agree on one salient conclusion: that Fidel Castro is encouraging and supporting the efforts of Communists to overthrow and seize control of the governments in Latin America.

A. Analysis indicates that the immediate threat stems less from the subversive efforts of traditional Communist movements than from Cuban support of any and all active revolutionary and terrorist movements.

B. These distinctions are not precise. In some countries, Castro's original success has spurred the established Communist movement to action, and he supports it. In others, the old-time Communists may even oppose radical action at this time, and Castro works with more active and more militant revolutionists.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

C. In any event, we know of only two coun--
tries--Mexico and Uruguay--where Castro
appears inclined for the time being to
forego inciting violence, and this only !
because he wants a favorable climate for
his operations into other countries.

II. Even before the October missile crisis--and
with increasing rancor since then--Cuban leaders
have been exhorting revolutionary movements to
violence and terrorism, and supporting their
activities.

A. Cuban support takes many different forms.

We have occasional evidence of direct
participation by Cuban nationals, as in
the La Oroya disorders in Peru in December.
We know that some funds move, generally in
cash by courier, from Cuba to the revolu-
tionaries in other countries. While we have
not been able to come up with the kind of
airtight proof a court would require that
weapons move directly from Cuba to these
same groups, we do know that Cuba furnishes
money to buy weapons, and that some guer-
rilla forces in Peru, for instance, are
equipped with Czech weapons which most
logically would come from Cuba.

-2-

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

B. But by and large, our evidence shows that
Cuba is not now attempting a large program
of physical support for Latin American rev-
olutionaries. It is, rather, concentrating
on supplying the inspiration, the guidance,
the training, and the communications and
technical assistance they require.

C. In essence, Castro tells would-be revolu-
tionaries from other Latin American coun-
tries: "Come to Cuba; we will pay your
way, we will train you in underground or-
ganization techniques, in guerrilla warfare,
in sabotage and in terrorism. We will see
to it that you get back to your homeland.
Once you are there, we will keep in touch
with you, give you propaganda support, send
you propaganda materials for your movement,
training aids to expand your guerrilla forces,
secret communications methods, and perhaps
funds and specialized demolition equipment."
Castro is not, as far as we know, promising
these other Latin Americans any Cuban weapons
or Cuban personnel--either leaders, ad-
visers, or cadres. But he probably does
tell them: "If you succeed in establishing

-3-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

something effective by way of a revolu-
tionary movement in your homeland, if your
guerrillas come down out of the hills
and confront regular armed forces, then we
may consider more concrete forms of assist-
ance."

D. So far, it should be noted, none of the
movements in South America has reached this
final stage--and in fact even Castro's
Sierra Maestra guerrillas never had to fight
a pitched battle with regular military
formations which might have required more
advanced weapons than small arms, grenades,
mines, and machineguns. In many ways, Cuba
under Castro is the Latin version of the old
Comintern, inciting, abetting, and sustain-
ing revolution wherever it will flourish.

III. Before going into more detailed evidence of Cuban
subversion in Latin America, I should note that
Venezuela is apparently number one on Cuba's
priority list for revolution.

A. Fidel Castro said so to the recent meeting
of Communist front organizations for Latin
American women.

1. Che Guevara and Blas Roca both empha-
   sized the outlook for revolution.in
   Venezuela in speeches in January.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET

2. One of our established sources of proven reliability, high in the ranks of the Venezuelan Communist Party ((a veteran party member and leader of the FALN)), says the Central Committee agreed in January that a "peaceful solution to the present situation in Venezuela is out of the question."

B. This same source reported that Communist guerrilla and terrorist operations in Venezuela were placed under a unified command in late 1962, which coordinates activities with the other militant extremist group in Venezuela, the MIR, The result has been the creation of the FALN,, or Armed Forces of National Liberation.

1. The FALN is currently trying to publicize its existence by such acts as the hijacking of the freighter ANZOATEGUI, and by acts of sabotage and indiscriminate shootings. These have also been designed to dissuade President Betancourt from his trip to Washington.

2. I do not wish to minimize the violence in Venezuela. The sabotage is the work of

-5-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET

experts, and is being done with advanced
types of explosives. The shooting has
reached the point in Caracas where it is
not safe to go out after ten at night in
some sections of the capital. But it is
the opinion of both our people and the em-
bassy that this is not a threat to govern-
ment control. It is one thing for a group
of young men to race down a dark street
firing a machinegun from a speeding car.
It is quite a different matter to stand
up to the armed forces, or seize and hold
government buildings.

3. We believe that Cuba has given guerrilla
   training to more nationals from Venezuela
   than from any other country. I shall ex-
   plain in more detail later how we arrive
   at our figures on guerrilla trainees. Our
   best estimate now is that more than 200
   Venezuelans received such training in 1962.

a. Many of these are engaged in terror-
ism in the cities, and others were
rounded up and given long prison
sentences when they committed themselves


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

prematurely last spring in a country-
side where the rural population strongly
supports the Betancourt administration.

b. One of our best penetrations of the Com-
munist Party in Venezuela tells us that
at present the unified command has less
than 150 guerrillas in the field, in
widely separated groups of 15 to 25 men
each.

-7-
SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)