# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 3/6/2018

Agency Information

AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10002-10098
RECORD SERIES : NSF, INTELLIGENCE BRIEFINGS, 11/23/63-12/5/63, BOX 1
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: THE PRESIDENT'S INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

DATE: 11/27/1963
PAGES: 16

SUBJECTS: INTELLIGENCE REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; Mandatory Review Material
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/12/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: DOC. #5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TOP SECRET

ROUTING

| TO: | NAME AND ADDRESS                  | DATE    | INITIALS |
| --- | --------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| 1   | James Mathi's, Spec. Access. NARA | 1/14/15 |          |
| 2   |                                   |         |          |
| 3   |                                   |         |          |
| 4   |                                   |         |          |

|             |              |                |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

REMARKS:

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO. DATE

Jennifer Cuddeback, LB.J Library 1/14/15

CONTROL NO. [SC-NLJ-085/93 B]

COPY 2 OF

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# THE PRESIDENT'S
# INTELLIGENCE CHECKLIST

ISSUED BY THE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

27 NOVEMBER 1963
TOP SECRET

5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

![map of cuba with sam site locations indicated]

SECRET

HAVANA

ISLE OF PINES

CUBA

SAM SITE

SECRET

Nipe Bay

U.S. Naval Base

100

NAUTICAL MILES

SECRET

63.11.26 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# Cuba

a. Cuban tents are now beginning to appear at a number of the SAM sites--further evidence that training of Cubans in operation of SAM equipment has begun as scheduled.

b. High-altitude photography taken this past weekend shows these tents at six SAM sites in western Cuba. These sites are in addition to those at which we noted the presence of Cuban interpreters as we reported on Saturday.

c. This training should be completed by next May or June.

d. Just before the training started, we noted a series of moves involving the relocation of eight of the SAM sites.

e. The purpose, it appears, was to shift the mission of the system from an area defense of the island as a whole to point defense of specific targets, particularly Havana. (Includes INTERCEPTS)

# Syria-Iraq

a. Syrian leaders have acceded to pressure from Iraq and have expelled Iraqi Baathist extremist Ali Saadi. He has gone to Athens

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

PARTY STRENGTHS IN TURKISH ELECTIONS
(by % of total vote)

![legend for 1961 general election] 1961 General Election

![legend for 1963 local election] 1963 Local Election

36.7
Republican Peoples' Party (RPP).
37.0

34.8
Justice Party (JP)
45.9

13.7
New Turkey Party (NTP)
6.5

14.0
Republican Peasant Nation Party (RPNP)
2.8

0
Nation Party (NP)
3.1

0.8
Independents (or unreported vote)
4.3

0
Turkish Labor Party (TLP)
0.4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

3. Turkey

b. This is an earnest of the desire of moderate Baathist leaders in Damascus to preserve workable relations with Iraq, partly as a counterbalance to Cairo and partly to preserve what remains of Baathist influence in Baghdad.

c. Intercepts show at least some Syrian troops will remain in Iraq at the request of Iraqi officials.

d. Preparations had been under way for these forces to withdraw; retention of at least some in Iraq is another sign that both regimes hope to preserve something of the relations they once had.
(Includes INTERCEPTS)

a. Prime Minister Inonu's coalition government is about to collapse.

b. It has long been shaky. Last week it was dealt a severe setback when the opposition Justice Party, heir of the Menderes regime, emerged from local elections as the country's majority party.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS IN SOVIET AGRICULTURE

![Major Developments in Soviet Agriculture]

INDEX OF NET AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION
1950 = 100

TOTAL POPULATION OF THE USSR
1950 = 100

1953-55
Procurement prices raised.

1954-56
New Lands program.

1955-56
Corn program.

1957-58
Program to "catch up" with US in meat and milk output.

1958
Machine-tractor stations abolished.

1961-62
Administrative reorganizations.

1962
Livestock product prices raised.

1962-63
Program to plow up and plant fallow lands.

Preliminary Estimate
1963-?
Fertilizer program.

1963
Wheat purchases.

![Years from 1950 to 1963 along the horizontal axis]


> [Figure] Soviet Grain Production (million metric tons)

![Soviet Grain Production]

|      | ALL GRAINS      | WHEAT ALONE |                 |             |
| ---- | --------------- | ----------- | --------------- | ----------- |
|      | Soviet Official | US Estimate | Soviet Official | US Estimate |
| 1956 | 141             | 125         | 77              | 66          |
| 1957 | 126             | 100         | 69              | 55          |
| 1960 | 134             | 100         | 64              | 46          |
| 1961 | 187             | 115         | 67              | 53          |
| 1962 | 148             | 114-117     | 71              | 57          |
| 1963 |                 | 100-110     |                 | 42-46       |

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

4. USSR wheat

c. Now the Peasant Party, one of the three in the coalition, has voted to pull out, and probably will do so as soon as Inonu gets back from Washington. Another partner, the Turkey Party, has wanted to pull out, and apparently has stayed in only because of pressure from the.military.

d. A new coalition is at least a theoretical possibility, with a number of independents taking the place of the Peasant Party, but Inonu probably would not be prime minister.

e. The military are working for an all-party coalition. This way, they feel, they could keep tabs on the Justice Party, but the Justice Party is not likely to buy this arrangement.

f. As matters now stand, the military would take over the government itself before it would let the Justice Party form one.

a. Soviet President Brezhnev has told the Iranian prime minister that the decision to buy wheat abroad was taken to avoid lowering reserves, which he has described as ample for one or two years. We think the situation is more serious than that.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

b. This year's harvest was clearly very bad. The weight of evidence suggests that Soviet grain stockpiles have been far drawn down this year and are not sufficient to protect the country from another poor harvest.

c. Our estimate is that total grain production each year since 1958 has been well below that year's level of 125 million tons, while the population has continued to grow.

d. We have seen from intercepts signs of extensive slaughtering in anticipation of fodder shortages during the winter. This runs counter to Khrushchev's oft-stated plan to build up the livestock industry.

e. We have also noted that the extensive wheat purchases weaken the USSR's gold reserves at a time when it hopes to expand its imports of machinery for a huge chemical fertilizer program.

f. In addition, we have seen signs of stringent measures to pro- tect the grain supply, accompanied by public discontent in some areas over the absence of bread.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

5. Communist
   China -
   Argentina

a. Peiping last week contracted for some 300,000 tons of wheat (cost about $20,000,000) from Argentina.

b. This adds to the 1,000,000 tons just contracted for with Australia, but is still far below the 5,000,000 tons the Chinese have normally imported in recent years. Additional suppliers will be hard to find.

c. A large sale, apparently involving some $56,000,000 worth of meat, is apparently also being arranged. This is interesting, not only for the sizeable foreign exchange outlay, but also for the concern it shows for improving the diet of the mainland's urban population.

d. The same caloric value could be obtained from grains at a fraction of this cost. (INTERCEPTS throughout)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

6. Czechoslovakia-USSR

a. Czech President and party boss Novotny has gone to Moscow, evidently for economic talks, judging by the composition of his delegation.

b. Novotny's background of Stalinist excesses have put him on the wrong side of Khrushchev. They also have given rise to control problems, particularly in the fractious Slovak party where pressures for liberalization have made their mark.

c. Party problems and Novotny's leadership may thus also come under review.

d. A curious sign of the times is the fact that, although President Novotny is in Moscow, the presidential flag has remained up at the official residence. It might simply have been an oversight, but the symbolism will not be lost to the people in Prague.

7. Cambodia

a. Cambodia, as expected, has asked the Geneva co-chairman to call the Geneva conference participants together (in Djakarta) to discuss measures "to ensure the internationally guaranteed and controlled neutralization of Cambodia."

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

> [Figure: Map of Saudi Arabia, Yemen, and surrounding areas, including a smaller inset map showing the location of the Red Sea.]

Dhila
Pass

Masiva
Qizan
Abo Aris
Khamis Moshe
Qarara
lawil
Marad
3200
Pamtas
Al Muwassam

SYRIA
JORDAN
IRAQ
Cairous
Majonna
RABIA Hobun
Sarwa
portow. Najran
Haбдила
Husainiya

U. A. R.
(EGYPT)
SAUDI
Ras Banas

Red
Riyadh
Jidda
Sea
Mecca
Taif

DEMILITARIZED ZONE

Asddah Sug Anan
B.R
rekern
ARABIA
SUDAN
Khartoum

Sana
★
YEMEN

P
Sharan Khorab
m
• Maydi

Hamir
Warial
Ayo
Zuhjah
Kaydo
Qidan
00

Marib
Marib
Sirwah

Jihannah Jadidah
Harib

KAMARAN
(U.Κ.)

Rawdaha
Salif
Jum

Turbah
Munakha
Tannan
RED
SEA
ETHIOPIΑ
33905

Al Hudaydah

Ma Sanit
Mocha
FR.
SOM.
Bal Faqih
dart
Ru

Zabid
Hun
Ha
Jinhah

Min
RO
Dafrar
Mans
Bayhan
Hun
Beihan al Qasab
Did

GULF OF ADEN

Rifah Lahy
ADEN
50 MILES
13 SEPTEMBER 1963

SADEN
ETHIOPIA
★
Addis Ababa
SOM
R.
LL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

8. Egypt-Yemen

b. Last year when this came
up, the French were inclined to go
along with some such idea.

c. They have indicated to us
that they still feel Sihanouk should
not be turned down, and Sihanouk is
obviously hopeful that they will
exert pressure on us and the British.

d. Sihanouk seems to be hoping
for at least a rump session attended
by conferees who are willing to do
his bidding.

a. An Egyptain military mes-
sage reporting to Cairo on operations
in Yemen this past weekend indicated
that poison gas (referred to as
"ghurab" in Egyptian military traf-
fic) was used against royalist tribes-
men in the northwest.

b. This is the first time we
have noted its employment since
last summer, although another inter-
cept shows that the Egyptian com-
mand has continued to authorize its
use.

(Cont'd)

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

9. Congo

c. It is basically a tear gas, but in such highly concentrated form that it has caused the death of a number of Yemenis.
(INTERCEPTS throughout)

a. Opposition leftist Congolese exiles, operating from Brazzaville across the river, are reported to be plotting to assassinate Congolese Premier Adoula and some of his ministers.

b. It is supposed to happen sometime after 8 December.

c. Meanwhile, agents are being infiltrated with money to buy off opposition to a takeover immediately thereafter by radical nationalist Gbenye.

d. Adoula's government already knows that this group of left-wing subversives, which now numbers about 50, is being helped by the Communist bloc.

e. It operates fairly freely in the loose circumstances which now obtain in Brazzaville. Its activities may soon become a serious source of friction between the two countries.

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

## NOTES

A. South Korea With 85 percent of the vote in, Pak Chong-hui's Democratic Republican Party has already won an absolute majority in the National Assembly elections held yesterday.

B. Venezuela The country's three major presidential candidates were the targets of unsuccessful assassination attempts yesterday as Communist-led terrorists moved into the final week of desperate attempt to wreck next Sunday's elections. A US Embassy official was also the intended recipient of a "Christmas package" containing a bomb. Yesterday a US rubber warehouse was set afire and destroyed by terrorists.

C. Indonesia-Philippines We have what is about as sure a sign as we can get that Sukarno will be going to Manila as reported yesterday. A reliable source tells us Sukarno has sent advance word to two of his favorite Philippine girl friends that he will be arriving on 28 November.

D. Indonesia-Malaysia Indonesian-inspired press reports yesterday claimed a British military plane was shot down near the North Borneo border. British Intelligence tells us the story is concocted; no aircraft are reported missing.

E. Cuba The alert in the Cuban military which we noted immediately after President Kennedy's death has been lifted. (INTERCEPT)

For The President Only - Top Secret

(Cont'd)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

F. Cambodia Cambodia is cutting its diplomatic representation abroad to a bare minimum as an austerity measure following curtailment of US aid, Sihanouk announced last week that this would be done, saying that missions in Communist countries would not be affected since those countries "protect" Cambodia. Curiously enough, among the missions being closed down are those in New Delhi and Rangoon. (Includes (INTERCEPTS)

G. USSR-US Pravda this morning reports on Gromyko's talks with President Johnson, giving top play to Senator Fulbright's remarks about the desirability of a meeting between the President and Khrushchev.

For The President Only - Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

## DOCUMENTS OF INTEREST

I. De Gaulle on NATO strategy.

II. Common Market official appraises President Johnson.
(Sensitive INTERCEPT)

For The President Only - Top Secret


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)