177-10001-10063 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/26/201
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10063
RECORD SERIES : NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. 1, BOX 32.
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 11/24/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1993
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: DOC. #188

v9.1 12
NW 50955 DocId:32282903 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INI ORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
(When Filled In)

COUNTRY. URUGUAY

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/565,829

SUBJECT CUBAN PRECAUTIONS FOLLOWING ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

DATE DISTR. 24 NOVEMBER 1963 DY-SMITH
ALEXANDER
BELK
BRILDECK
PRECEDENCE ROUT INE
REFERENCES
DINGEMAN
DUNGAN
FORRESTAL

DATE OF INFO. 22 NOVEMBER 1963
PLACE & DATE ACO. URUGUAY, MONTEVIDEO (23 NOVEMBER 1963)
FIELD REPORT NO. HUM-2414
APPRAISAL 2
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVEN
SOURCE A URUGUAYAN POLICE OFFICIAL (B).

KILDUF
KLEIN
KOMER
SAUNDERS
SCHLESINGER
SMITH, WM. Y. (CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE)

1. RICARDO GUTTIEREZ TORRENS, THIRD SECRETARY AND CIS/
   CHIEF OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MONTEVIDEO, TELEPHONED THE MONTEVIDEO POLICE AT 1710 HOURS (MONTEVIDEO TIME) ON 22 NOVEMBER TO REQUEST EXTRA POLICE PROTECTION FOR THE CUBAN EMBASSY. GUTTIEREZ SAID THE EMBASSY HAD RECEIVED REPORTS THAT A MOB WAS PLANNING TO STONE THE EMBASSY.(FIELD COMMENT: THE NEWS OF PRES. KENNEDYS ASSASSINATION WAS RECEIVED IN MONTEVIDEOMAT APPROXIMATELY 1600 HOURS, MONTEVIDEO TIME).

2. THE POLICE FURNISHED EXTRA PROTECTION TO BOTH THE CUBAN EMBASSY AND TO THE SOVIET LEGATION, ALTHOUGH THE LATTER HAD

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassificationR

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR AX 00 EXO

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

NW 50955 DocId: 32282903 Page 2

(15-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
(When Filled in)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/565,829

IN 67186
PAGE 2

MADE NO REQUEST. AS OF 1600 HOURS 23 NOVEMBER THERE HAVE BEEN
NO DEMONSTRATIONS AGAINST EITHER DIPLOMATIC INSTALLATION. (FIELD
COMMENT: THE POPULACE OF MONTEVIDEO HAS BEEN PROFOUNDLY SHOCKED
AND GRIEF STRICKEN OVER PRES KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION. A SPONTANEOUS
CROWD ESTIMATED BY PRESS TO COMPRISE 3000 PERSONS
MARCHED TO AMERICAN EMBASSY RESIDENCE EVENING OF
22 NOVEMBER TO EXPRESS THEIR SORROW).

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCSO.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId:32282903 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)