177-10001-10064 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 8/26/201
Identification Form

Agency Information
AGENCY: LBJ
RECORD NUMBER: 177-10001-10064
RECORD SERIES : NSF, COUNTRY FILE, CUBA, TDCS, VOL. 1, BOX 32
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 11/23/1963
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CUBA
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1993
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: DOC. #190

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId:32282904 Page 1
13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, he transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET

COUNTRY CUBA

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/565,826

SUBJECT COMMENTS OF CUBAN OFFICIALS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

DATE OF INFO. 22 NOVEMBER 1963

PLACE & DATE ACO. CHILE, SANTIAGO (22 NOVEMBER 1963)

APPRAISAL SEE BELOW

DATE DISTR.. 23 NOVEMBER 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENTS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A CHILEAN WHO HAS A GOOD KNOWLEDGE OF ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO ACQUIRED THROUGH PROLONGED ASSOCIATION WITH THE OFFICIALS OF EMBASSY. HE IS AN ACCURATE, RELIABLE REPORTER.

APPRAISAL: IT IS PROBABLY TRUE THAT THE REMARKS WERE MADE AS REPORTED.

1. THE FOLLOWING ARE REMARKS MADE BY OFFICIALS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO REGARDING THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY:

A. ON 22 NOVEMBER JOSE TOHA, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE CHILEAN CUBAN CULTURAL INSTITUTE AND DIRECTOR OF THE PRO-CASTRO LEFTIST PRESS ULTIMA HORA , INFORMED PEDRO MARTINEZ PIREZ, CHARGE OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO, THAT KENNEDY HAD BEEN ASSASSINATED. TOHA SAID "ESTE ASUNTO DE KENNEDY SE ESTA PONIENDO COLOR DE HORMIGAS" (POSSIBLY MEANS ASSASSINATION OF KENNEDY LOOKS LIKE IT COULD HAVE SERIOUS REPERCUSSIONS). MARTINEZ COMMENTED THAT HE HEARD THAT THE PERSON ARRESTED WAS PRESIDENT OF A FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE AND THAT IF THE YANKEES OR CIA ASSASSINATED KENNEDY TO RESUME THE ASSAULT ON CUBA, THEN A THIRD WORLD WAR

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR FBI

TATE/DIR I&NS TREASURY REPCINCLANT

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

DRM 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

NW 50955 DocId: 32282904 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/565,826

IN 67147

PAGE 2

WOULD START. HE SAID THINGS ARE VERY CLEAR AND THERE IS NO DOUBT THAT THEY HAVE ASSASSINATED HIM, THE CONTRADICTIONS ARE WELL DEFINED AND THE MOMENT WAS VERY SPECIAL, LIKE THAT OF THE MAINE. MARTINEZ SAID THE UNITED STATES IS NOW IN THE MOST DIFFICULT POSITION OF THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS IN LATIN AMERICA, THE WORLD, GOULART, ARGENTINE PETROLEUM, PERUVIAN LANDS, CHILEAN MINES AND IN GENERAL ALL OVER LATIN AMERICA. TOHA SAID HE WAS VERY WORRIED AFTER READING THE CABLE TRAFFIC. MARTINEZ ADDED THAT IF THE USA IS THINKING OF INVADING CUBA THEN THEY MUST HAVE EVERYTHING ALL PREPARED AND ALL THE STRATEGY READY AND THEREFORE THE ALARM MUST BE GIVEN SO THAT CUBA CAN BE PREPARED.

B. THE CUBAN CONSUL AT VALPARAISO CALLED THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO TO DETERMINE POLICY IN THE MATTER OF FLYING THE FLAG AT HALF MAST. THE REPLY WAS THAT THERE ARE NO DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH THE USA AND THAT NO OFFICIAL WORD HAD YET BEEN RECEIVED FROM CUBA, SO THEREFORE NOTHING SHOULD BE DONE. (FIELD COMMENT: THIS IS AGAINST PROTOCOL BECAUSE THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT HAS DECREED OFFICIAL MOURNING INCLUDING FLYING FLAGS AT HALF MAST.)

C. MARTINEZ REFUSED TO MAKE FURTHER STATEMENTS PREFERRING TO WAIT FOR OFFICIAL WORD FROM HABANA. SEVERAL TIMES HE DENIED THAT THE ASSASSIN WAS INVOLVED IN THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE INSISTING THAT THIS PERSON IS ONLY A SUSPECT AND THAT EXTREME RIGHTISTS OR SEGREGATIONISTS ARE TO BLAME. MARTINEZ SAID HE BELIEVED THAT THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT WOULD TRY TO PUT THE BLAME ON CUBA.

2. FIELD. DISSEM: CINCSO CINCLANT.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId:32282904 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)