# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10004-10416
RECORD SERIES : TESTIMONY SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: COLBY STATEMENT--APPENDICES

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: THE MIAMI STATION
DATE: 01/13/1975
PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS: BAY OF PIGS
ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CIA
PERIODICAL, RAMPARTS
MIAMI, FL
CUBAN EXILES
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/06/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Appendix J to Statement of William Colby to Rockefeller Commission, 13 January 1975.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

178-10004-10416

Secret

Appendix J

# THE MIAMI STATION

In March 1960, President Eisenhower approved the project later to become known as the Bay of Pigs. In April 1960 a Western Hemisphere Division Forward Operations Base (FOB) was established in South Miami, Florida, for the purpose of coordinating all support, training, and preparatory activities for operations against Cuba. The FOB simultaneously supported our busy Havana Station which was operating under difficult circumstances, including inhibiting surveillance of our officers by Castro security services. After the Station was closed in Havana when US diplomatic relations were broken with Castro's government in January 1961, it was envisioned that selected personnel assigned to the Miami Base would, upon the overthrow of the Castro government, become a nucleus to reopen the Havana Station. During the Bay of Pigs landing, the FOB provided support for the operation.

In September 1961, the Miami Station was established at a new location, replacing the FOB. About 300 persons were assigned to the Station at one time; Headquarters responsibility was in an autonomous group until 1965, when the Western Hemisphere Division resumed charge.

Utilizing former Cuban assets in Havana who had fled to the United States, indigenous Cuban organizations were formed to continue the overt struggle against the Castro government. In addition, a Cuban Intelligence Organization in exile was formed to collect information on the activities of militant autonomous Cuban exile groups in the United States who were not affiliated with the US Government effort against the Cuban regime. The Cuban intelligence organization in exile participated in a number of activities including the issuance of anti-Castro publications, maintaining relations with anti-Castro governments and groups in the Caribbean and Latin American countries, and debriefing Cuban exiles arriving in the United States for positive foreign intelligence and counterintelligence to identify Cuban agents being infiltrated into the United States via the Cuban Freedom Flights and small boats. Allied with this effort was an electronic intercept capability directed at Cuban government communications which was manned by indigenous Cuban exiles. Close working relations were maintained with US Government agencies in the Miami area such as the FBI, INS, Coast Guard, Customs, Navy, Air Force, etc., to coordinate activities. A small support base was established in Key West.

Secret

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Secret

During the period 1962-66 the Miami Station engaged in classical intelligence operations directed against the Cuban regime. Radio Americas was established and broadcast daily from Swan Island in the Caribbean. Psychological, economic, and political activities were undertaken in an effort to undermine confidence in the Castro government and underscore the Soviet presence and total Cuban dependence on the USSR. Maritime operations were also undertaken. Among other missions, Cubans who desired to escape from the Cuban mainland were assisted.

In late 1966 a substantial cutback in the pace of operations began and a reorganization of the Station was undertaken as a result of a review by higher authority (303 Committee). Many cover entities were terminated and personnel reassigned. Increased emphasis on the collection of intelligence and counterintelligence through operations in other foreign areas, limitation on maritime activities, and consolidation of written and radio output achieved considerable savings in money and manpower.

In early 1968 it became apparent that as a result of sustained operational activity in the Miami area over a period of years the cover of the Miami Station had eroded to a point that the security of our operations was increasingly jeopardized. This erosion was more significant following the *Ramparts* exposure of CIA operations and the possibility that the location of our Station on property leased from the University of Miami might be especially embarrassing to the University. At the same time, it became apparent that activities would have to be reduced drastically for policy, budgetary, and operational reasons. It was decided to deactivate the Miami Station and replace it with a smaller Station which would be better able to respond to current needs. Security had deteriorated seriously at the large Station (then 150 persons) which was under commercial cover near Homestead; the new Station of about 50 persons had good official cover on a government-controlled area in a run-down part of Miami Beach. It was felt, also, that the new Station could facilitate adjustments in the objectives and targets of Miami-based operations and enable the new Station to reduce our dependence on those Cuban exiles who were no longer in tune with current or future needs.

In August 1968 the new, smaller Miami Station was activated, and during the ensuing months the maritime activities were terminated; a new and much smaller media operation was activated, and intelligence collection was expanded to include the Bahamas and Lesser Antillies. Increased emphasis was given to third-country Cuban operations (agent recruitment and technical operations against Cuban Embassies abroad) under the guidance of the new Station. The Cuban emigre organizations supported by the Station were drastically reduced and activities were

2

Secret

NW 50955 DocId: 32105602 Page 3

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Secret

phased down. In 1974, responsibility for the residue Cuban operations was transferred to Headquarters and the remaining Cuban emigre organizations were terminated.

Currently, some 20 staff personnel in the Miami Station are engaged in collecting foreign positive intelligence and counterintelligence in those areas of the Caribbean that are of strategic importance to US policymakers and in which unfriendly overt or covert actions would be inimical to US interests. (For Support Activities in the Miami area, see the attachment.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Secret

Support Activities
in the Miami Area

Communications

Prior to 1968.

From the late 1950s through 1968, CIA communications activities in the Miami area supported DDO covert action against the Cuban government. The CIA radio station transmitted and received enciphered messages to and from agents at sea or in Cuba.

A radio intercept facility also monitored Cuban and other selected foreign radio signals. Apart from Cuban operations, some high frequency Morse and teletype messages were exchanged between the Miami radio base station and selected CIA field stations in Latin America. In 1964 the CIA Latin American area electronic equipment repair facility was relocated from Panama to the Richmond Naval Air Station.

Miami-based CIA communications personnel were responsible to the DDO for training staff and agent personnel and for equipping teams and boats with the means of maintaining communications during operations directed against Cuba.

Liaison was conducted with the FCC, the FBI, the Department of State, and the Department of Defense.

Other non-communications liaison existed between the Miami communications facilities and various organizations: the Miami Beach Police, the University of Miami, and the Coast Guard/GSA.

From 1968 to Present.

The focus was on communicating with CIA agents in-place on the island of Cuba or in Latin America. Communications links were established with foreign police authorities in several countries during this period.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Secret

During the 1968 Republican National Convention, secure electronic circuitry was installed between the Fountainbleu Hotel and CIA Langley Headquarters. The circuit was patched through the Langley facility to the CIA communications radio station at the Richmond Naval Air Station. Provisions were made to provide the Secret Service with name trace information on foreign nationals on a timely basis during the 1968 Republican National Convention and the 1972 Democratic and Republican National Conventions. In the latter instance, requests were made by Secret Service Headquarters to CIA Headquarters and communicated to CIA/DDO, Miami, for action.

In 1969 the CIA Latin American Communications Activity (AMCA) Headquarters was relocated from Washington, D.C., to Miami. This activity provides the operational, technical, and management support to the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service and CIA covert operations throughout Latin America. AMCA Headquarters also took over all CIA communications facilities and responsibilities in the Miami area.

All CIA monitoring activities ceased in 1972. The Richmond Naval Air Station radio base station ceased operation in early 1972. In May 1974 the special DDO contract facility that monitored Cuban communications, located in Homestead, Florida, was closed. At the same time, the secure communications circuitry between the DDO cover office responsible for name traces was also terminated.

Liaison was conducted with the FCC, the GSA, and the Army for purposes of cover and with the Armed Forces Courier Service.

Although very little communications support for Cuban operations was provided after 1968, on one occasion an anti-Castro group was given support in the form of radio signal plans and technical guidance on how to best install radios in small boats.

The Burns Detective Agency was contracted to provide security service and operated CIA-owned radios as part of their security posture. Cover. for the Naval Air Station communications facility continued to be provided by the Army for cover.

Contact with the Miami police did occur after 1968 as the result of using an office in a Miami police station for three months to train a Surinam

5
Secret

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library

NW 50955 DocId:32105602 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Secret

National Police Officer in high frequency communications. No communications instructions were provided to the Miami police.

Finance

The First National Bank of Miami has been used by the Monetary Division to provide the Office of Finance with essential services in support of operations. These included: purchasing foreign currencies; purchasing bank cashier's checks; establishing bank accounts, both commercial and individual; providing letters of credit; initiating and receiving bank transfers, and placing of home mortgages in one or two instances where the individual's cover precluded the normal credit investigations.

Medical Services

"Bay of Pigs" Project.

The Project Medical Advisor made two TDY trips to Miami prior to the Bay of Pigs to discuss medical training plans with Cuban medical personnel.

A four-man evaluation team from OMS made at least two TDY trips to the Miami area to medically evaluate Cubans as cadre personnel for the invasion brigade.

The Assessment and Evaluation Staff (A&ES) sent teams to Miami during the same period for psychological evaluations.

A Medical Technician from the OMS was also temporarily assigned to Miami for first aid and medical training for the project activities in the Miami area.

Post-Invasion.

A Medical Technician from OMS was assigned PCS to JMWAVE in Miami from September 1963 to June 1966.

During this same period the A&ES (by then part of the OMS) would, on request, occasionally send a psychologist to Miami for psychological evaluation for these continuing WH operational activities.

6
Secret

Photocopy
from
Gerald R. Ford Library


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

Secret

OMS support of the type mentioned above was phased out about 1964. Since that time, OMS relationship to any Agency activity in Miami has been rare.

Since 1960, OMS has continuously had an average of three independent contractors in the Miami area who function as professional consultants to OMS.

## Personnel

The Office of Personnel conducts or has conducted normal personnel activities including: recruiting, position surveys, and contract preparation. Correspondence is carried out with personnel in the Miami area relative to: retirement benefits, insurance, disability and casualty claims, and the shipment of employee household effects and automobiles.

## Security

In July 1968 the Office of Security established a field office in Miami to run investigations and provide liaison and operational support to the DDO Station, Miami. Prior to 1968, such support was physically integrated into the DDO activity.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)