2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10003-10016
RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (10)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE SPECIAL GROUP, 30 AUGUST 1962

DATE: 08/30/1962
PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS: CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Consulted
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId:32204599 Page 1
25


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 178-10003-10016

30 August 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group, 30 August 1962.

PRESENT: Gun ral Taylor, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, General Carter, General Lemnitzer, and Hr. Bundy

Colonel Steakley was present for Items 1-3.

Mr. Pford Herbert was present for Items 4-6.

1. Reconnaissance

A. DOD Peripheral Flights

The peripheral flights were approved as presented. It was noted that LOLLY would involve only a single aircraft as opposed to the previous two plane flights in this area. As to LUCETTE and MICHELE, it was pointed out that these flights would not be flown while the Soviet niclear test prohibited zone was still in effect. In response to a question from Mr. Johnson as to why these flights were 40 rather than 50 miles off the coast, Colonel Steakley said that the distance selected was a variable, depending on the purpose of the flight and other conditions.

B. Laos

General Taylor asked if anyone cared to reopen this matter. Mr. Gilpatric presented the Defense position. In view of the Soviet transport circraft stand down and the indications that the Communists were at least going through the notions of carrying out the agreement, Defense was in favor of not reopening the matter until the 75 day withdrawal period was over and an evaluation had been made of the degree of Communist compliance. General Lemnitzer, while willing to take the risk of waiting, said he would like to make it clear that from the military point of view it was most important that we have good informa- tion on Communist activities. These flights are our prime source of hard information. The consensus of the Group was that this subject would not be reopened until after the 75 day withdrawal period was over.

c. Overflights of South Laos

(1) Colonel Steakley pointed out that there was one problem in connection with a flat prohibition on photo flights over Laos, At present, EF-101's based in Thailand must overfly the southern panhandle

UNMARKED
NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

enroute to execute missions in South Vietnam. He proposed that the
general policy te wodfiled to permit high altitude overflights (35,000
feet) to and from South Vietnam, by planes based in Thailand. It was
brought out that the average activity level was about two missions about
every three days. There was agreement that photo reconnaissance in
general against guerrilla targets was difficult but that this made it
all the more important to do all that we can, These flights are
essentially covert; as, current agreements preclude the filing of flight
plans for photo aircraft. Mr. Johnson said that the Department was
willing to go along with this activity, but felt that the matter had
to be reviewed by higher authority cue to his very explicit previous
instructions to the contrary. The Group's decision to approve this
specific exception to the prohibition against photo flights over Laos
was later reported to higher authority.

(2) In discussing the matter above, the desirability of
redeploying the aircraft to South Vietnam was mentioned. This matter
was referred to Defense for further examination. It was also recognized
that the South Vietnamese might well be given some indigenous capability
for photo reconnaissance. It was also suggested that possible Laos
overflights, after the 75 day period had clapsed, wight well be put in
the standard overflight category rather then being handied as a separate
item.

D. The ELINT flights from Thailand were discussed and approved
with the understanding that they would use the specific routes indicated

Ε. The Agency's monthly forecast wes reviewed and noted. All
of the flights contained therein had been previously approved. General
Carter mentioned that there might be an additional requirement for
flights over Cuba.

F. The destroyer surveillance mission DESOTO was discussed and
approved. It was pointed out that the ship generally operates 20 miles
offshore, but closes to 12 miles under certain conditions. The Group
requested that they be informed if any of the various ELLNT operations
picked up unusual indications.

G. The Group reviewed certain submarine activition and approved
them as presented.

2. Resupply of the Mees

General Carter raised the question of exactly how approval should
be obtained for arus and ammunition resupply missions to the Keos. It
was agreed that this was a matter for consultation between the Department
of State and CLA, and need not be referred to the Group for decision.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

### 3. Soviet Signal Intelligence Ships

The Growo considered an outline plan for "communication" with Communist crews. The general consensus was that this plan did not fall within the purview of the Special Group, It was referred back to 3 for further development. The matter will be discussed at a State-JCS meeting to be held in the near future. Mr. Gilpatric also expressed interest in seeing a more detailed development of the concept. Mr. Bundy pointed out that we should be careful where such activities are pursued. Generally speaking, they should be limited to the high seas or international air space. General Carter raised the point that this concept should not be stretched to include defection operations on land. This is a highly skilled operation which requires special attention and control. The Group took no particular position for or against the concept in referring it back to Defonso.

### 4. Chile

The Group reviewed the two Agency papers. Mr. Johnson stressed the necessity for concealing U.S. participation in this operation and also expressed some concern about the possibility of the Radicals pulling out prematurely and bringing the government down. The Agency mentioned the desirability of policy-level conversations with suitable Chileans so that they would be aware of the future political arrangements which it is felt would be to the common interests of Chile and the United States. The Group approved the recommendation in paragraph 5 on page 7.

### 5. Dominican Republic

The Group noted this paper. Cenoral Carter urged the Department of State to continue to press the interim goverment on the desirability of holding early elections.

### 6. Panama

Mr. Johnson said that State concurred in the general thrust of this paper, but would like to limit the continuation of the program to a three-month period during which time it would be reviewed in detail by State and CIA. The Group approved the proposal with this reservation.

### 7.

General Lemnitzer stated that Mr. McCone had called him and posed a possible requirement for low-level photography of critical Cuban targets. Ceneral Lemnitzer said that from the military point of view this was feasible, utilizing either RF-101 or F8U aircraft flown by U.S. pilots from various bases of carriers in the Caribbean area.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

EVES CILY

use of Cutan pilots would involve a delay of some months due to the precise training required. General Carter pointed out that we are accustomea to doily of overflights in any case and that the possibility of Cuban protests should not dissuade us from making these fiights if they are necessary. It was pointed out that other types of photo-graphy, while useful in pinpointing critical targets, do not give sufficient detall for precise identiiication of certain types of equip-ment. After some discussion, the Group agreed to take cognizance of this matter and requested that it be reopened at an appropriate time when specific targets and information neers could be identified.

8. It was agreed that the Agency would present a paper concerning Action Against North Vietnam at next week's meeting.

***

General Taylor did not have an opportunity to review these minutes prior to his departure.

![Gerald R. Ford Library stamp]

Julian J. Ewell
Colonel, USA

Distribution
Mr. Johnson
Mr. Gilpatric
General Carter
General Taylor

![photocopy from the Gerald R. Ford Library]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)