2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: KISS/SCOW
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10003-10176
RECORD SERIES: CHURCH COM.
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 7602957 (9)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: KELLEY, CLARENCE
TO: DAVIS, JEANNE W.
TITLE: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE REQUEST FOR LBJ LIBRARY DOCUMENTS
DATE: 06/07/1976
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS:

CHURCH COMMITTEE
DOCUMENT REQUEST, CHURCH COM.
FBI

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/19/1993
OPENING CRITERIA A: :
COMMENTS: Attached to 1781000310175.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

June 7, 1976

BY LIAISON

Ms. Jeanne W. Davis
Staff Secretary
National Security Council
Washington, D. C.

RE: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE REQUEST
FOR LBJ LIBRARY DOCUMENTS

Dear Ms. Davis:

Reference is made to your letter dated May 25, 1976, captioned as above.

This is to confirm the conversation on May 26, 1976, between my liaison representative Robert L. Moore and Mr. Steven L. Skancke of the National Security Council (NSC) Staff. Your letter requested the views of the FBI as to whether documents enclosed with your letter, which were classified by or concerned the FBI, could be made available to the Senate Select Committee (SSC) Staff on a classified basis or made available for access on NSC premises. Mr. Moore advised Mr. Skancke that the following documents could be made available for delivery to the SSC Staff:

1.  FBI Current Intelligence Analysis dated November 27, 1963, classified "Secret," (3 pages).

2.  John Edgar Hoover letter to Honorable Marvin Watson dated December 2, 1966, classified "Top Secret," (1 page).

SECRET

Classified by 2996

Exempt from GDS, Category 2

Date of Declassification Indefinite

> [Figure: Seal of the Federal Bureau of Investigation]

> [Figure: "PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY" text running vertically along the right side of the document.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

Ms. Jeanne W. Davis

3. John Edgar Hoover letter to
   Mrs. Mildred Stegall dated
   January 3, 1968, classified
   "Secret," (1 page).

4. FBI Letterhead Memorandum (LHM)
   captioned "Training of Negroes
   in Cuba" dated January 3, 1968,
   classified "Secret," (2 pages).

5. John Edgar Hoover letter to
   Honorable Bill D. Moyers dated
   January 11, 1965, classified
   "Secret," (1 page).

6. John Edgar Hoover letter to
   Mrs. Mildred Stegall dated
   November 3, 1967, classified
   "Secret," (1 page).

7. John Edgar Hoover letter to
   Honorable Marvin Watson dated
   June 7, 1965, classified
   "Secret," (1 page).

Mr. Moore further advised Mr. Skancke that the
following documents could be made available to the SSC
Staff with appropriate deletions:

1. FBI LHM captioned "Alleged Cuban
   Plot to Assassinate Governor
   Roberto Sanchez Vilella of
   Puerto Rico," classified "Secret,"
   (1 page). The words "inside
   Cuba" appearing on the second
   line of the first paragraph to
   be deleted.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

Ms. Jeanne W. Davis

2. White House memorandum addressed to "Mr. President" signed "Marvin" dated November 6, 1967, unclassified (1 page). The words "18 Cuban- trained double agents against the Cubans" appearing in the second sentence of the last paragraph to be deleted.

3. FBI LHM captioned "Training of Negroes in Cuba" dated November 3, 1967, classified "Secret," (2 pages). The words "18 Cuban-trained intelligence agents as double agents or potential double agents against the Cubans" appearing in the third sentence of the last paragraph, page 2, to be deleted.

4. FBI LHM captioned "Plans to Assassinate Cuban Leaders," classified "Secret," (2 pages), dated June 4, 1965, with the word "Williamson" appearing on lines 3, 6 and 9 in the first full paragraph on page 2 to be deleted.

Mr. Skancke was also advised that the FBI LHM captioned "Reaction of Soviet and Communist Party Officials to the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy" dated December 1, 1966, classified "Top Secret," (6 pages), should not be delivered but could be made available to the SSC Staff for review on NSC premises. The White House memorandum prepared by "WJ:yb" dated November 24, 1963, was classified "Secret" on May 25, 1976,

SECRET

- 3 -

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY
NW 50955 DocId: 32204061 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

Ms. Jeanne W. Davis

(3 pages), by FBI Classification Officer 2996, Exempt from
GDS, Categories 2 and 3, Date of Declassification Indefinite.
This document should not be delivered but could be made
available for review by the SSC Staff on NSC premises.

Sincerely yours,

![signature]

Clarence M. Kelley
Director

SECRET

- 4 -

NW 50955 DocId:32204061 Page 5

> PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)