2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: DUVAL78-67
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10003-10311
RECORD SERIES: ACCESSION 78-67 (UNPROCESSED)
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CIA HISTORIES

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CIA "HISTORIES": BREAKDOWN OF CERTAIN ITEMS REQUESTED...
DATE: 03/00/1975
PAGES: 7
SUBJECTS: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
CIA
DOCUMENT REQUEST, CHURCH COM.
DOCUMENT TYPE: LIST
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: IC
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/27/1993
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: No author or date given, presumably Church Committee document request.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CIA "HISTORIES": BREAKDOWN OF CERTAIN ITEMS REQUESTED AND ITEMS NOT REQUESTED

Note: This analysis excludes histories of a purely internal, or- organizational or administrative nature (such as "CIA Recruitment, 1947-71") and histories of other matters covering essentially the entire period of the CIA (such as "Major Policy Authorization for the Conduct of Covert Paramilitary Activities by CIA, 1948-1966.") It focuses instead on activities or operations -- particularly specific covert or clandestine actions -- and similar matters which are within the Senate Select Committee's stated area of interest and generally attributed to one particular Presidential Administration.

I. Items of significance relating to the period of the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations

A. Histories requested

1. Monitoring the 1970 Middle East Cease Fire: The Intelligence Role (TS/TKH) (DDI-2)

2. Intelligence Support for President-Elect Richard N. Nixon (TS/SI) (OCI-2)

3. Covert Support to Indonesian Revolutionary Government, 1957-1958 (two volumes) (053)

4. Operations within the Surete Nationale of the Government of South Vietnam, May 1955 - December 1956 (063)

5. The Covert Action Program in France 1948-1960 (121) (but note that the time period covered by the history begins in the Truman Administration)

6. Overthrow of Premier Mossadeq of Iran, November 1952 - August 1953, (208) (but note that the time period covered by the history begins in the Truman Administration)

__UNMARKED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION__


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

2

B. Histories not requested

1.  Logistics Support for Operations in Cuba,
    March 1960 - October 1961 (OL-7) (but
    note that the time period covered by the
    history begins in the Kennedy Administra-
    tion)

2.  Problems of Support for Operations in Laos,
    June 1970 - May 1971 (support memoir) (MS-9)

3.  History of the Hungarian Refugee Exploitation
    Program, December 1956 - June 1958 (DCS-4)

4.  Contacts with Ethiopian Dissidents and the 1960
    Coups, 1958-1966 (173) (but note that this
    history also covers the time periods of the
    Kennedy and Johnson Administrations)

II. Items of Significance Relating to the period of the Kennedy and
Johnson Administrations

A. Histories requested

1.  The 1967 Crisis in Covert Action Operations;
    The Ramparts Exposure (196) and The 1967
    Reappraisal and Readjustment in Covert Action
    Operations; the Katzenbach Committee Report
    (354) (two separate but very closely related
    histories)

2.  Counterinsurgency Operations in the Congo
    (Kinshasa), 1963-1967 (three volumes) (117)
    (Also requested was a related history -- "Stanley-
    ville Baser Personnel Activities During Crisis,"
    August to 24 November 1964 (109) -- (personal
    memoir of the experiences of an agent held
    hostage during that period).

3.  The Chilean Election Operation of 1964 - A Case
    History, 1961-1964 (two volumes) (001)

![photocopy from the gerald r. ford library]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

3

4. Success in Ceylon, 1965, 1960-1965 (TS) (061) (but note that the time period covered by this history begins in the Eisenhower Administration)

5. Funding Covert Operations, 1960-1964 (TS) (015) (but note that the time period covered by this history begins in the Eisenhower Administration)

6. Harassment of CUTAL (The Communist Sponsored Latin American Labor Front), December 1961-July 1964 (TS) (019)

7. Air Proprietary Program, 1960-1969 (030) (but note that the time period covered by this report begins in the Eisenhower Administration and ends in the Nixon Administration)

B. Histories not requested

1. History of Vietnamese Generals' Coup of 1-2, November 1963- Saigon Station Log & Analysis (TS) (009) and The Vietnam Coup d 'Etat of November 1963 and its Aftermath (0057) (two separate but closely related histories)

2. Vietnam History, The National Interrogation Center (NIC) (Vietnamese), November 1961 - August 1965 (two volumes) (029)

3. Operational Program Against North Vietnam, 1960-1964 (036) (but note that the time period covered by this history begins in the Eisenhower Administration)

4. Experimental Deception and Harassment Operations in Vietnam, February and March 1966 (112)

5. Logistics Support for Operations in Vietnam, July 1962 - December 1966 (OL-8)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

4

6. Aspects of the Air and Ground War in Laos,
   1965-1967 (160)

7. Logistics Support for Operations in Laos,
   March 1961 - June 1968 (OL-9)

8. Impressions of Operations at Long Thieng,
   Laos, May 1962 - March 1964 (005)

9. History of Cuban Refugee Exploitation
   (Caribbean Admission Center -- CAC),
   March 1962 - December 1966 (DCS-1)

10. Cuban Missile Crisis - Phase I, 29 August -
    16 October 1962 (NPIC-1)

11. The Asia Foundation -- Review of Basic
    Principles and Priorities, 1963-1965
    (Projected) (017)

12. American Friends of the Middle East, Inc.,
    July 1957 - January 1963 (011) (but note that
    the time period covered by this history also
    includes the Eisenhower Administration)

13. History of Project WUATLAS; A Covert
    Action Project Using Proprietary Low Cost
    Housing Activities, 1960-1968 (032) (but note
    that this history also includes the last year
    of the Eisenhower Administration)

14. History of an Air Proprietary Activity in
    East Africa, 1963-1968 (206) and History of
    an Air Proprietary Activity in West Africa,
    1960-1968 (217) (two separate but related
    histories; note that the time period covered
    in the second history includes the last year
    of the Eisenhower Administration)

15. A Project for the Procurement of Intelligence
    Material Through Commercial Channels,
    1960-1967 (207) (note that the time period..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

5

covered by this history includes the last
year of the Eisenhower Administration)

16. History of a Proprietary Investment
    Project, Covert Economic Action Phase,
    1960-1963 (262) (note that the time period
    covered by this history includes the last
    year of the Eisenhower Administration)

17. Newspaper Operations in *Lusaka, Zambia*,
    March 1963 - August 1965 (115)

18. An Academic Cover Operation in *Dar es
    Salaam*, Tanzania, October 1965 -
    November 1966 (116)

19. A Staff Agent Under Commercial Cover in
    *Tanzania*, February 1966 - November 1967
    (212)

20. Trade Union Council of South Africa, 1962-
    1967 (164)

21. The Ethiopian Labor Movement, 1961-1968
    (226)

22. The Atassi Case, 1963 - February 1965
    (184) (Near East Division) (apparently an
    operation in Syria)

23. Domestic and Area-Wide Operations (WH/6),
    August 1963 - 30 June 1967 (172) (Western
    Hemisphere Division)

24. Emergency Supply Operations During the
    Dominican Republic Crisis, 29 April - 4 June
    1965 (OL-4)

25. A Tour at the White House, 1967-1969 (OCI-3)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

III. Miscellaneous "histories" which were not requested but which -- considering the Senate Select Committee's Charter and stated areas of interest -- are in the nature of "glaring omissions"

1. Staff relations with the Department of State and with Ambassadors, 1957-1967 (TS) (213)

2. War Planning in the Clandestine Services, 1948-1965 (TS) (152)

3. The Evolution of Ground Paramilitary Activities at the Staff Level, October 1949 - September 1955 (163) (and a supplemental history covering 1955-1971 (183) (three volumes)

4. Development of Paramilitary Contingency Cadres, 1948-1971 (two volumes) (336)

5. Operations in Mozambique, 1942-1969 (178)

6. The Secret War in Korea, June 1950 - June 1952 (052)

7. CIA and Korea, 1946-1965 (283)

8. The Psychological Services Staff of the Office of Medical Services, 1951-1966 (OMS-4)

9. Military Secrets in an Open Society: The Yale Report (MS-10)

10. History of the Defector Program, April 1946 - December 1966 (DCS-2)

11. History of Operation LINCOLN, 13 February 1959 - October 1964 (DCS-3) (apparently involving the Cubans)

12. Record of Paramilitary Action Against the Castro Government of Cuba, 17 March 1960 - May 1961 (105)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

7

13. The Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962: Present- ing the Photographic Evidence Abroad (MS-7)

14. The Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962: Second Presentation to DeGaulle (MS-8)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)