2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 8/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ROCKCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 178-10003-10001
RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILE
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ASSASSINATION MATERIALS--MISC. ROCK/CIA (9)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD, SPECIAL GROUP MEETING 20 SEPTEMBER 1962
DATE: 09/20/1962
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS:

*   ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
*   CIA
*   CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

178-10003-10001

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD OF SPECIAL GROUP MEETING OF

20 SEPTEMBER 1962

There was discussion of FIRE FLY. Its use over Kamchatka was disapproved. General Carter raised the possibility of using it against Cuba, and State appeared enthusiastic. (General Carter does not feel that any operations which DD/R has been considering have been prejudiced by this discussion.)

There was some discussion of the balloon operation over Cuba, but action was deferred until next week. In the meantime, State is most anxious that it be arranged for the exiles to do this and that they not come running back to Miami immediately. The question was also raised as to whether the exiles could still obtain helium.

The next ambassadorial counter-insurgency team will go to Africa. The chairman will be Carl Hummelsine. We are to drum up a candidate.

In presenting the North Vietnam plan next week, CIA is to include the requirement for an overflight to gather radar information. In connection with the whole North Vietnam operation, State seems determined to have no overflights over Laos and no involvement of Chinese Nationalist aircraft or personnel except possibly Chinese pilots in sterile aircraft with South Vietnam credentials. State plans to balance very carefully the risks versus the potential gains. DD/I is to prepare the same sort of assessment on the North Vietnam operation as on Tibet.

The Air Libya item was approved as presented.

The support to the Apra Party in Peru approved as presented.

On Tibet, to be acted on next week, Secretary Rusk is absolutely bent on getting the Indians cranked in.

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId: 32204614 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

General Carter briefed the meeting on the provision of the security advice to the President of Colombia.

General Carter read the CIA memo on CINCARIB communications problems. The meeting expressed delighted surprise at our capability. We are now a full-fledged member of the State-Defense group which is considering this problem.

On Nicaragua, a memo is to be prepared for the Acting DCI-describing the degree of Cuban involvement, particularly in the shipment of arms to Nicaragua by way of Honduras. This memo will also cover Communist infiltration of student and laoor and a discription of CIA activities in these same fields.

There was a long discussion of the role of USIB in recommending countries to be placed on the counter-insurgency list. Full account to be gotten Ton To::: Parroti.

There was discussion of the Southeast Asia status report, concentrating on strategia hamlets, the Montagnards, and the bad press situation in Saigon.

General Carter called attention to the memoranda on the North Vietnam presence in Laos. The question came up as to whether there was an SNIE in the works on this. This subject is to be keptcurrent, especially in view of the 6 October deadline.

State and Defense announced that they had now sen the counter sturgency dortre papers to everyone in the field.

Theme was a suggestion that it was time for a progress report he South Vietnam intelligence capability,

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)