# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10337
RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 8
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 6

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page: 1

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10337
RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 12/14/78
PAGES : 15
SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
DOYLE, KEVIN SEAN
DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :
Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32243303 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

DOYLE, K.S.
Name of Employee

Address

Address

Phone Number

Position Title

Position Number Lavel Step

OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
1977
YEAR

DATE OF APPOINTMENT
12-14-76

ANNUAL LEAVE
CATEGORY
1.0
1.5
2.0

BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR

Annual  Sick
Leave Leave

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

Years Months




| Month |  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |  5  |  6  |  7  |  8  |  9  | 10  | 11  | 12  | 13  | 14  | 15  | 16  | 17  | 18  | 19  | 20  | 21  | 22  | 23  | 24  | 25  | 26  | 27  | 28  | 29  | 30  | 31  | ACCRUED THIS MONTH | AVAILABLE THIS MONTH | USED THIS MONTH | BALANCE AT CLOSE OF MONTH | EMPLOYEE INITIALS |            |     |
| ----- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :----------------: | :------------------: | :-------------: | :-----------------------: | :---------------: | ---------- | --- |
| Jan.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |    Annual Leave    |      Sick Leave      |  Annual Leave   |        Sick Leave         |   Annual Leave    | Sick Leave |     |
| Feb.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         /          |          /           |                 |                           |         1         | 1          |     |
| Mar.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         /          |          /           |                 |                           |         2         | 2          |     |
| Apr.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         /          |          /           |                 |                           |         3         | 3          |     |
| May   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         /          |          /           |                 |                           |         4         | 4          |     |
| June  |     |     |     |     |     |  X  |  X  |  X  |  X  |  X  |  X  |     |     |     |     |  S  |     |     |     |     |     |  S  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         /          |          /           |        6        |             6             |         5         | 5          |     |
| July  |     |     |     |     |  X  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |  A  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         /          |          /           |        2        |             4             |         1         | 3          |     |
| Aug.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |                      |                 |                           |         0         | 1          |     |
| Sept. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |                      |                 |                           |         1         | 4          |     |
| Oct.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |                      |                 |                           |                   |            |     |
| Nov.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |                      |                 |                           |                   |            |     |
| Dec.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |                      |                 |                           |                   | 4          |     |

Terminated 8/16/77


= 0.5 day annual leave

= 1.0 day annual leave

= 0.5 day sick leave

S or  S = 1.0 day sick leave

A = 0.5 day administrative leave

A or  A = 1.0 day administrative leave

U = 0.5 day unauthorized absence

U or  U = 1.0 day unauthorized absence

= 0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay





CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employee's Signature Date
(If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)

Approved:
Chief's Signature Date

Clerk of the House Date
This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

EXHIBIT I

NW 88326
DocId:32243303 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official:)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Kevin Sean Doyle                  | 8/16/77        |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action                                       |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| 077 48 6826                     | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee   | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations Committee        | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information:)

| Position Title     | Gross Annual Salary |
| ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Clerical Assistant | $9,500.00           |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number __________ If applicable, Level ________ Step _____

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 17, 1977 19__________

(Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code __________
Monthly Annuity $__________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243303 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Kevin Sean Doyle                  | 8/1/77                                               |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 077-48-6826                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title     | Gross Annual Salary |
| ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Clerical Assistant | 9,500               |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff- Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number __________ If applicable, Level ______ Step ______

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 2 19 77

LOUIS STOKES, C
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House. Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $___________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee.

NW 88326
DocId:32243303 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

-mailed 4/22/77

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
Employment Standards Administration
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs

DUTY STATUS REPORT

PART A – SUPERVISOR

1. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MEDICAL FACILITY OR PHYSICIAN AUTHORIZED TO PROVIDE MEDICAL SERVICES
   Richard Smith

2. EMPLOYEE'S NAME (Last, first, middle)
   71-56-49 3-24-77
   OWCP 7-23-55 M
   26

3. DATE OF INJURY (Mo., day, year)
   3/24/77

4. OCCUPATION
   Clerical Assistant

5. SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
   077 48 6826

6. DESCRIPTION OF INJURY

right ankle twisted

PART B – PHYSICIAN

7. IS THE EMPLOYEE ABLE TO PERFORM HIS/HER REGULAR WORK?

YES
NO IF YES, GIVE DATE ABLE TO RESUME WORK.

8. IS THE EMPLOYEE ABLE TO PERFORM LIGHT WORK?
   PHYSICAL LIMITATIONS WHICH ARE DUE TO THE INJURY.

YES
NO IF YES, DESCRIBE BRIEFLY THE

9. IF THE EMPLOYEE IS FIT FOR NEITHER FULL OR LIGHT DUTY, GIVE A BRIEF REPORT AND PROGNOSIS

10. REMARKS
    Excess walking may remain painful for a couple of days


11. SIGNATURE

RICHARD SMITH M.D.

12. PROFESSIONAL DEGREE
    MD

13. DATE (Mo., day, year)
    Mar 24, 1977

PART C – SUPERVISOR

14. SEND A COPY OF THIS REPORT TO:

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
Employment Standards Administration
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs

15. NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYING AGENCY, WHICH IS TO RECEIVE THE ORIGINAL REPORT.

Select Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Form CA-17
Nov. 1974

NW 88326
DocId:32243303 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

-mailed 4/22/77

# U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION

1. NAME OF INJURED EMPLOYEE (Last, first, middle)

DOYLE KEVIN SEAN

2. DATE OF BIRTH
   (Mo., day, year)

7/23/55

3.  MALE
    FEMALE

4. SOCIAL SECURITY
   NUMBER

077-48-6826

5. HOME MAILING ADDRESS (Number, street, city, state, zip code)

224 N. WAKEFIELD, ARL., VA. 22203

6. HOME TELEPHONE
   AREA CODE
   NUMBER

7. NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYING ESTABLISHMENT (Name, number, street, city, state, zip code)

SELECT CO. ASSASS

8. PLACE WHERE INJURY OCCURRED (e.g., 2nd floor, building 402, Andrews Air-Force Base)

3rd FLOOR 3337 HOB#2

9. DATE AND HOUR OF INJURY
   (Mo., day, year)

AM
PM

3/24/77

10. DATE OF THIS NOTICE
    (Mo., day, year)

3/24/77

11. OCCUPATION

CLERICAL ASSISTANT

12. CAUSE OF INJURY (Describe how and why injury ocurred)

Caught foot on hole in carpet and
twisted ankle

13. NATURE OF INJURY (Name part of body affected-fractured left leg, bruised right thumb, etc.)

right ankle hurt & has lump

14. NAMES OF WITNESSES TO INJURY (If none, so state)

NONE

15. IF THIS NOTICE WAS NOT GIVEN WITHIN 48 HOURS AFTER THE INJURY, EXPLAIN REASON FOR DELAY. IF EARLIER NOTICE WAS GIVEN
    VERBAL OR WRITTEN, STATE WHEN AND TO WHOM.

I certify that the injury described above was sustained in the per-
formance of my duties as an employee of the U.S. Government and that
it was not caused by my willful misconduct, intention to bring about
the injury or death of myself, or another, nor by my intoxication. I
hereby make claim for compensation and medical treatment to which
I may be entitled by reason of this injury.

16, SIGNATURE OF INJURED EMPLOYEE OR PERSON ACTING ON
HIS BEHALF

![signature]

17. STATEMENT OF WITNESS: DESCRIBE WHAT YOU SAW, HEARD OR KNOW ABOUT THIS INJURY

18. SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

19. DATE (Mo., day, year)

CA-1 & 2
Rev. May, 1973

NW 88326
DocId:32243303 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# OFFICIAL SUPERIOR'S REPORT OF INJURY OR OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE

20. DEPARTMENT OR AGENCY

House

21. BUREAU OR OFFICE

S.C. on ASSASS

OF REA

22. NAME AND MAILING ADDRESS OF REPORTING OFFICE (Name, number, street, city, state, zip code)

23. DATE REPORTING OFFICE RECEIVED
    NOTICE OF INJURY (Mo., day, year)

24. NAME OF SUPERVISOR IN CHARGE
    WHEN INJURY OCCURRED

25. NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON TO WHOM
    NOTICE FIRST GIVEN

3/24/77

DONOVAN GAY

Bob Morrison

VERBAL
WRITTEN

DEP DIRECTOR OF SEC

26. DATE AND HOUR OF INJURY
    (Mo., day, year).

27. CIRCLE DAY OF WEEK WHEN
    INJURY OCCURRED

28. HOUR REGULAR WORK BEGINS

3/24/77

AM
PM

T
W
T
F
S

900

AM
PM

29. HOUR REGULAR WORK ENDS

30. NUMBER HOURS WORKED PER DAY

31. CIRCLE DAYS PAID PER WEEK

600

AM
PM

9

S
M
T
W
F
S

32. DATE AND HOUR STOPPED WORK
    (Mo.. day, year)

33. DATE AND HOUR PAY STOPPED
    (Mo., day, year)

34. DATE AND HOUR RETURNED TO WORK
    (Mo., day, year)

AM
PM

AM
PM

AM
PM

35. INCLUSIVE DATES EMPLOYEE RECEIVED PAY FOR THE PERIOD HE DID NOT WORK
    (Mo., day, year)

ANNUAL LEAVE

SICK LEAVE

OTHER

FROM TO FROM TO FROM TO
FROM TO FROM TO FROM TO
FROM TO FROM TO FROM TO

36. WAS THE EMPLOYEE ENGAGED IN HIS USUAL OCCUPATION AT THE TIME THE INJURY OCCURRED?

YES
NO
IF NO, FURNISH DETAILED EXPLANATION

37. WAS THE EMPLOYEE IN PERFORMANCE OF DUTY AT TIME OF INJURY?

YES
NO IF NO, FURNISH DETAILED EXPLANATION
OR A COPY OF THE EMPLOYING ESTABLISHMENT'S INVESTIGATION REPORT

38. WAS THE INJURY CAUSED BY WILLFUL MISCONDUCT, INTOXICATION OR INTENT TO BRING ABOUT INJURY TO SELF OR ANOTHER?

YES
NO IF YES, FURNISH DETAILED EXPLANATION

39. WAS THE INJURY CAUSED BY A THIRD PARTY?

YES
NO IF YES, FURNISH NAME AND ADDRESS OF RESPONSIBLE PARTY

40. DATE EMPLOYEE FIRST OBTAINED
    MEDICAL CARE FOR THE INJURY
    (Mo., day, year)

41. NAME AND ADDRESS OF FIRST ATTENDING PHYSICIAN

3/24/77

42. DOES YOUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE FACTS ABOUT THIS INJURY AGREE WITH THE STATEMENTS OF THE EMPLOYEE AND/OR WITNESS?

YES
NO IF NO, FURNISH DETAILED EXPLANATION

43. SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL SUPERIOR

44. TITLE

3/24/77

CHIEF
RESEARCHER

45. DATE (Mo., day, year)

3/24/77
CA-1 & 2
Rev. May, 1973

NW 88326
DocId:32243303 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' NOTICE OF INJURY OR OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE, CA-1 & 2

IMPORTANT: Employee and official superior should read all of the following instructions before the page is removed.

Items 1 through 16 of this form should be completed by the injured employee or by someone acting on his behalf, whenever an injury is sustained in the performance of duty. The term in- jury includes occupational disease caused by the employment. The form should be given to the em- ployee's official superior within 48 hours following the injury. The official superior is that indi- vidual having responsible supervision over the employee.

In instances of a recurrence of disability resulting from an injury previously reported on form CA-1 & 2, the official superior should complete and submit form CA-2a.

The official superior will complete the "Receipt of Notice of Injury" at the bottom of this page, tear off the page, and give it to the employee. The official superior will also be responsible for obtaining the statement of a witness (if any), signature, and date, in items 17, 18 and 19 on the front of the form.

A brief description of benefits provided by the Federal Employees' Compensation Act is given on the back of this page.

# INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING OFFICIAL SUPERIOR'S REPORT OF INJURY OR OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE, CA-1 & 2

The back of form CA-1 & 2 should be completed by the employee's official superior. The form should be sent immediately to the Office of Federal Employees' Compensation servicing the employing es- tablishment if:

1. The injury causes disability for the employee's usual work beyond the shift it occurred, or

2. It appears that the injury will result in prolonged treatment, permanent disability or serious disfigurement of the head, face or neck, or

3. It appears that the injury will result in a charge for medical or other related expense.

If none of the above occurs or appear likely to occur, the form should be filed in the employee's official personnel file after the official superior completes the "Receipt of Notice of Injury' and gives it to the employee.

When additional information is required to explain or clarify any point, attach supplemental state- ments to the form. The form should then be sent to the appropriate office of the Bureau. For fur- ther information, see the regulations governing the administration of the Federal Employees' Com- pensation Act (Code of Federal Regulations Title 20 Chapter 1).

# RECEIPT OF NOTICE OF INJURY

THIS ACKNOWLEDGES RECEIPT OF NOTICE OF INJURY SUSTAINED BY *KEVIN SEAN DOYLE*

WHICH OCCURRED ON 3/24/77 AT 3337 HOB #2

SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL SUPERIOR DATE 3/24/77

TITLE CHIEF RESEARCHER 3/24/77

CA-1 & 2

Rev. May, 1973

20. DEPARTMENT OR AGENCY House

21. BUREAU OR OFFICE

NW 88326
DocId:32243303 Page 9

OFFICIAL SUPERIOR'S REPORT OF INJURY OR OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# CA-1 & 2
Rev. May, 1973

# DISABILITY BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION ACT

The Federal Employees' Compensation Act administered by the Office of Federal Employees' Compensation (OFEC) provides the following basic disability benefits for employment related injuries or occupational diseases:

1.  Full medical care.

2.  Payment of compensation for wage loss.

3.  Payment of compensation for permanent impairment of certain members or functions of the body (such as loss or loss of use of an arm, loss of hearing, etc.) or for serious disfigurement of the head, face or neck.

4.  Vocational rehabilitation and related services where necessary.

Medical care must be obtained from United States medical officers and hospitals when available and practicable. Otherwise, from any duly qualified private physician or hospital of the employee's choice. Qualified physicians may be used only if U.S. or designated medical facilities are not available, or if an emergency exists.

Compensation is paid by check sent to the employee's home mailing address. Compensation for wage loss is payable only for periods when an employee is in a non-pay status. The first three days in a non-pay status are waiting days and no compensation is paid for these days unless the period of disability exceeds 21 days or the employee has suffered a permanent disability. Compensation is generally paid at the rate of 2/3 of an employee's salary if he has no dependents, or 3/4 of his salary if he has one or more dependents.

Compensation is not paid automatically—an employee or someone acting on his behalf must claim it by filing OFEC form CA-4. This form may be obtained from the employing establishment or the OFEC. In practically all cases medical reports are required before compensation may be paid, therefore arrangements should be made to have medical reports submitted to the OFEC at the earliest possible date.

If an employee stops work as a result of an employment related injury or occupational disease, he may:

1.  Use sick and/or annual leave, or

2.  Receive compensation from the OFEC.

Before compensation may be paid, the OFEC must receive form CA-1 & 2; form CA-4; and medical evidence concerning the nature and causal relationship of the injury. Medical reports must cover initial examination and the employee's condition at the time claim for compensation is filed. In addition, if a case involves some complication or conflicting, information, it may be necessary to obtain supplemental information.

An employee or someone acting on his behalf must complete the front of the form CA-1 & 2 and file it within one year after the injury or disease occurs. However, under certain circumstances, the OFEC may waive the one-year requirement if the front of the CA-1 & 2 is completed and the form filed within five years.

If an employee is in doubt about his compensation benefits, he may write to the Office of Federal Employees' Compensation servicing the employing establishment. (Obtain the address of the OFEC office from the employing establishment).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)  | Effective Date |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Kevin Sean Doyle                   | 1/3/77         |
| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action |
| 077 48 6826                        | Appointment    |
| Employing Office or Committee      |                |
| Select Committee on Assassinations |                |

Salary Adjustment

Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title     | Gross Annual Salary |
| ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Clerical Assistant | $9,000.00           |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 222 of_25th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number________ If applicable, Level________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date________________, 19__________

__________________________
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Henry B. Gonzalez
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:__________________________Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code________

Monthly Annuity $__________.00

NW 88326
Docld:32243303 Page 11
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)
Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Kevin Sean Doyle                  | 12/14/76       |

| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action                                         |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| 077 48 6826                        | ☑ Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee      | ☐ Salary Adjustment-                                   |
| Select Committee on Assassinations | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)-

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Messenger      | $9,000              |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 1540 of 94th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level ________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date December 15 1976

Thomas N. Downing, Chairman

Select Committee on Assassinations

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and, for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________

Monthly Annuity $___________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243303 Page 12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees

FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not related  ✓

I am related by the following relationship

![Signature of Employee]
Signature of Employee

![Date]
Date

NW 88326
Docld:32243303 Page 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# RESUME OF

KEVIN SEAN DOYLE

Present Address: 224 N. Wakefield Drive
Arlington, Virginia 22203

Date of Birth: July 23, 1955

Marital Status: Single

Sex: Male Height: 6'2" Weight: 190 lbs.

Health: Excellent

Telephone: Office - 225-4624

## EDUCATION

9/75 - 6/76 SUNY at Buffalo

1/75 - 6/75 University of Iowa (Writers' Workshop)

9/73 - 10/73 State University of N.Y. at Buffalo (SUNY)
year leave of absence

9/67 - 6/73 Nichols School (Grades 7-12)

## WORK EXPERIENCE

8/75 - 10/75 Dog Census Bureau (City of Buffalo)
Census Taker (left because we counted all dogs)

6/75 - 8/75 Mayor's Summer Youth Program
City of Buffalo
Stockroom Supervisor (terminated-seasonal job)

1/74 - 5/74 Bartender in bars owned by Dennis Brinkworth
Buffalo, New York (left to travel abroad)

8/73 - 12/73 Doyle, Diebold, Bermingham, Gorman, & Brown
(law firm - left to find another job)

6/73 - 8/73 Laborer, Buffalo Sewer Authority (seasonal job)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

RESUME
Kevin Sean Doyle
Page Two

## SPECIAL INTERESTS

Writing, photography, music (guitar, piano), cinema

## REFERENCES

Furnished upon requests


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# RESUME OF
KEVIN SEAN DOYLE

Present Address: 224 N. Wakefield Drive
Arlington, Virginia 22203

Date of Birth: July 23, 1955

Marital Status: Single

Sex: Male Height: 6'2" Weight: 190 lbs.

Health: Excellent

Telephone: Office 225-4624

## EDUCATION

9/75 - 6/76 SUNY at Buffalo

1/75 - 6/75 University of Iowa (Writers' Workshop)

9/73 - 10/73 State University of N.Y. at Buffalo (SUNY)
year leave of absence

9/67 - 6/73 Nichols School (Grades 7-12)

## WORK EXPERIENCE

8/75 - 10/75 Dog Census Bureau (City of Buffalo)
Census Taker (left because we counted all dogs)

6/75 - 8/75 Mayor's Summer Youth Program
City of Buffalo
Stockroom Supervisor (terminated-seasonal job)

1/74 - 5/74 Bartender in bars owned by Dennis Brinkworth
Buffalo, New York (left to travel abroad)

8/73 - 12/73 Doyle, Diebold, Bermingham, Gorman, & Brown
(law firm - left to find another job)

6/73 - 8/73 Laborer, Buffalo Sewer Authority (seasonal job)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# RESUME
Kevin Sean Doyle
Page Two

## SPECIAL INTERESTS
Writing, photography, music (guitar, piano), cinema

## REFERENCES
Furnished upon requests


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)