# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Box 3
F4
#10

SURELL BRADY
3/7/78

KOSTIKOV, VALERIY VLADIMIROVICH

201-305052

3 VOLS.

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.

11110762

VOL. 1 - 1959-1962

[Some type of phone memo or [intercept]]

15 Oct 1962

"MO asks NEFYEDOV for either SARMASHEV or KOSTIKOV. Neither of them is in. NEF asks who is speaking. VSEMOCHKIN /ph/. MO says that NEF doesn't know him. "We are passing through Mexico. NEF tells MO to hold the line. GARM takes phone. MO repeat his name - VSEMOCHKIN. MO says that KOSTIKOV promised to come over. KOSTIKOV takes phone. MO asks KOST if he will come and get "us", KOST doesn't have an auto avail able right now, KOST says that everything opens at 1000. MO says we will be waiting for KOST. / apparently MO and others are going to Habaria./ MO asks if KOST could get 500 dollars that "we" have spent on the trip. Kost will see about it."

DOB 3/17/33 MOSCOW

EMPLOYEE, SOV. EMB., MEXICO CITY, DOI JUNE 1961


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

KOSTIKOV

VOL. II JAN. 63- DEC. 64 11110763

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSSREFERENCE

15 SEP 64 FBI

"The file of this bureau do not contain any info to fully support statement in par five of your proposed draft to effect that subj believed to work for Dept Hirteen of First Chief Directorate of Comm for State Security of KGB/

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

4 DEC 1963

… coverage of Kostikov and Arseniev thru 30 Nov indicate no particular deviation of their mode activities, no travel out-side mosk."

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

23 Nov 1963

At 1250 hrs on 22 Nov Cuban Consul Alfredo Mirabel Diaz asked to speak w/ suspect KGB Pavel Antonovich Yatskov. Latter apparently unavailable and


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

11110764

Kostifor came on live with full conversation ensuing in familiar form "to."

Kos: Forgive me for arriving late.

mir: Did you recover the suitcase?

Kos: yes

mir: Her it was arriving or the offer trip?

Kos: yes

mir: I called to tell you the following, that regarding that matter that we had talked about, to see if we would spend Sunday in Chapultepec Park because my wife is preparing some food to eat there.

Kos: I'm sorry but I've prior made plans for another trip and I'm leaving this very day. So please forgive me for not being able to go with you. (At this point Kostifor in error addressed Mirábal as agave, and mir corrects him....)

Kosi: Have you already talked w/ nechiporenko?

mir: I'd like to talk w/ Pavel yat spor

Kos: Wait a minute, he'll come now,

mir: If he's busy I'll call him later, but I'll be available for the rest


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

11110765

Thay four at Jel 20, 11 28 47

[ Ros: OR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

11110763

4/13/78

Dispatch

12/5/63

To: Chief, WH Division

From: Chief & Station, Mexico City

Subj: [TOPFLOOR] Gilberto Lopez

Subject checked into Hotel Roosevelt, Avenida Insurgentes 287, Mexico D.F. at 1600 hrs. on 11/25/63, Room 203

On 11/27/63 at 2100 hours departed for Havana, Cubana flight #465 as only passenger w/ crew of nine used U.S. passport # 310162 which contained a Cuban 'Courtesy' visa.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Lopez
4/13/78

Classified message
3/20/64

11110767

Enriquie Ruiz mortalvo, agertg tục
Federal guaicial Polici, informed fase
Hao oreg tis cortacts reported in
Mate February that Ilberto Lopes,
4.5. Citizer, was crowed io Presi
dent Kernedy's assassiration


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

lopez
4/13/78

FBI memo 105-126109 11110763
3/31/64

Subject reported by sources to have
attended gatherings of FPCC in private
residence Tampa, Fla. 11/20/63 and
was expecting to get phone call from
Cuba in order to get word on his
departure for Cuba.

Obtained temp. tourist card at Hono-
rary Consulate of Mexico in Tampa
11/20/63, entered Mex. by private auto
11/23/63 and departed Mexico City en
route to Havana 11/27/63

U.S. State Dept. contains no record of
subject applying for or being granted
permission for travel to Cuba.

Further desc:
prominent nose, high bridge

Tampa FPCC met 11/17/63 at home of
Mary Ruiz to show color slides
taken in Cuba

Lopez identified by photo as having been
present at the meeting.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

11110760

Cristira apos, Clearwater, Jha, aloo
Had FPCC meetings at fer home

Lusbare Manuel amor fad beer
chairrar & Jampa FPCC

luga 1963 trey moved to Jampa

Cristirá amor arrounced at 12/8/63
resting trat Lopez tad arrived
Safely is Cula

carried courtegy Cubar visa
at time & sovance of max. Tourist Cand
Lopez tod sand tis destiratior was
metics, valid for 15 days

Louis Fritze, Jampa art art music co.,
205 East Jyler Sc., Japon placer ad for FPCC in Jampa, Juture or 5/15/6

Jampa FPCC did not exist at trat ture

Organized 1/9/61.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

copy
4/13/78

11110770

Guiberto Policarpo Lopez

FBI report 8/26/64

File No. 105-126109

registered for selective service at Key
West, Fla. 7/29/60 and classified 4-F
2/23/62 due to language barrier

under medication for grand mal epi-
lepsy

remained in U.S. about a year and then
returned to Cuba because of homesick-
ness

Consin Guillermo Rodriguez adersed
that subj. is pro-Castro but not in-
volved in pro-Castro activity in U.S.

born 1/26/40 in Havana

U.S. passport #310162

lived with uncle Raul Rodriguez

1124 Seminary Street

employed at moura Bakery in Key West

desc. 5'7", 126 lbs, brown hair, green
eyes, ruddy complexion

brothers:

Selito: member of Cuban militia


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

* Raimundo Poucarpo Lopez
  sent to Russia by Cuban government to study

left Key West in late 1963 to go to Tampa
to attempt to return to Cuba
had returned to U.S. 1960 or 1961
because he was afraid of being drafted
into the Cuban militia

married to Blanche Andrea Leon on
8/11/62 before a Notary Public in Key
West
wife lived at Porter Place Housing Project
in 1964 employed at Hesserer's, Inc., Key
West

wife stated subj and nor have funds
to travel to mexico and Cuba; he
said he had gotten financial help from
an "unrecalled" organization; presum-
ably in the Tampa area

subj had apparently had no prior
history of epilepsy before coming to the
U.S.

treated by Dr. James D. Malgrat, 3207


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

11110772

Hagler Avenue, Key koa

and Dr. Irving Perlmutter, neurosurgeon,

in miami





SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET 4/13/78

11110773

Classified message

Date: 11 Jul 60

To: Director

From: [Frankfurt]

Borrero to Dir [Frankfurt] Cite [FROB] 7294

[Redskin]

Ref [B-013] 9956

1. Subj ref wcu knows to [FOB] and previously contacted by [Howard D.]

[Probey] in [PBPRIME]

2. Appreciate the offer but at present [Probey] or leave therefore defer to HQ for full debriefing

SECRET

5/mc


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET

memillar
4/13/78
DDO

11110773
3 May 1977

Memo for: Chief, ERFO and Privacy Staff
From: Charles A. Briggs
DDO ERFO Review Officer
Subj: Priscilia P. Johnson McMiller
Ref: A. Request no. P-76-1861
B. OS Referral dated 1 Dec 1976

5. The following documents should be referred to the appropriate Govt. agencies and components as indicated (Tab D).

Doc # 125

FBI Report on Howard Sochurek, 17 Sept 1964, which mentions subject. This reproduction is not very legible. We ask the FBI to deny the release of this Report as all the info contained therein is from the CIA and involves cover, etc.. Email based on Privacy Act exemptions (j)(1)(b,c) and (k)(1)

7. This Directorate also has two DCD intelligence information Reports


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# SECRET

mcmillar
4/13/78

11110:74

Fire) C-102798. (old file C-70300)

Release Date: May 58 thru Oct. 76

Classified message

7 gue 60

From: [Bo   ] 15-13

Dir [har FROB] 20-20 cire [Bon  ] 20-13 9956

Redskin

Priscilla Johnson, age 32, form Long
roard, for past two years employee
North Americas newspaper Alliance
Moscow, now unemployed because of
Soviet refusal to renew visa, stopping Bad Godesberg 9 July for
several days, possibly week, or way
back to United States. Purpose of Bad
Godesberg visit is to discuss her
future with Ed Lactermayer, Bonn
correspondent of Wall Street Journal,
who old acquaintance, marcere R.
Causnor, who acquainted w/ Lacter
mayer, will see Johnson. Although
doubtless HP will doubtless wish
debrief her upon return to states,
Causnor could arrange for intro
duction of [FROB] 25-20 officer for social and
exchange of views meeting in Bad Godes.

4/4
mk


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

11110773

beng if desired

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

4/13/78
DDO
DCD Doca

Report no. 00-B-3,239,496 11110776
Date Distr. 19 Oct. 62
Country: USSR
Date of Info: Apr. 62
Place & Date of Acq.: moscow 16 Sep 62

Subject: Reported attempt on Khrushchev life.

On 16 September 1962, while visiting Moscow, I talked with a Soviet press who is a free lance journalist.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

4/13/78
DDO

Report no.: 00-B-3,239,848
Date Riser.: 24 Oct. 62
Country: USSR 11110777
Date of Info: Aug-Sept. 62
Date and Place of Acq.: Moscow/Lenir
gad/Lordor Aug-Sep. 62

Subject: Changes in Cultural Affairs/Party Officials Patronize Writers


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

11110773

& which the subject was the source.
DCD will not release those reports via the mail. However, if Subject writes to see them, we will allow her to review them, in sanitized form, in the presence of an Agency officer.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

4/13/78
DDO

11110780

13 Dec 1977

Memo for: Chief, Info and Privacy Staff (U)
From: Robert E. Ower (U)
ERPO Review Officer
Subj: Priscilla M. P. Johnson McMillan (U)
Reference:

(c) After considering the concerns expressed by Mr. Zuberi in Reference D, we agree that all references to possible *clandestine use* of the USSR of this DCI contact should be denied per. Accordingly, we have further sanitized the following documents to reflect this change: 63, 64, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 88, 89, and 90. Resanitized copies of these documents have been inserted into their proper places in the letter and in the IPS holdback package.

SECRET

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# SECRET

Classified ressage
Date: 3 May 58

To: Rirector

From: [Paris]

1111078:

4/13/78
DDD

1.  Suby reports fes received four-

month tourist Soviet visa ara plans depart witiir rept two weeks. Lepor arrival moscow urii explore job posse s opportunities. Plans tape foat bra Riga.

2.  Subj. fas agreed "Embassy" briefing prior departure. Expressed wring ress do utat could during tune moscow. watter rot pursued arce subjict rot yet cleared.

3.  Subj. pas sor fueras iom will contact upor arrival, are from in-tellectual and artistic curices. Belive after careful briefing subj could act as spotter ara might cor tact appropriate sous & interesc Rubark Also letter railing.

SECRET

1/mc


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

JOHNSON, PRISCILLA 11110782
201-102798

Review of 201 file or U.S. citizen 3 Jan. 75

"car most accurately be categorized as...
witting collaborator."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

4/17/78
O.S.

11110783

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

TO: CI/ OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
SEC. SUPPORT DIVISION/ OFFICE OF SEC.

25 MAY 1962

SPECIFIC AREA OF OBE
[LONDON, U.K.]

FULL DETAILS OF USE

CLEARANCE TO EMPLOY SUBU AS NEWS EDITOR-WRITER
FOR MAGAZINES SUBSIDIZED BY [DTLEAFAGE] (CHINA QUARTERLY & ENCOUNTER) AND SOVIET SURVEY.

SECRET

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET

4/17/78
0.5.

11110784

THIRD AGENCY DOCS:

1. FBI REPORT DATED 24 JAN 56

2. STATE CABLE FROM MOSCOW TO SEC OF STATE
   DATED 22 JUNE 1960
   CONTRL #16476
   EMBTEL 3:54

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

9/17/78
O.G.

11110785

INDICES:

/D NY TIMES 20 MAR 64 OSWALD, LEE H

/D MEMO DATED 15 FEB 1962 IN FILE OF WALLROD,
GEORGE R.

*WINTERS, GEORGE P., JR.-16 DEC. 1960

VAN HOLLEN, EDITH ELIZA MEMO TO CH/CI/SRS 2/25/57

JOHNSON, PRISCILLA *90079

HOTEL METROPOLE

MOSCOW USSR

* MEMO FOR CI STAFF 10/30/58 - P.G."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

11110786

25 APR 1967

CHIEF SRS.

M.D. STEVENS

SVETLAVA STALINA

#505112

THE THEN PRISCILLA JONNSON WAS OF INTEREST IN THE OSWALD CASE, IN THAT SHE MET UND AIND INTERVIEWED HIM IN Μοσχοω ςοαν AFTER HIS ARRIVAL THERE AND RENUNCIATION OF HIS U.S. CITIZENSHO AFTER THE ASSASSINATION SHE WROTE A NUMBER OF ARTICLES ABOUT HIM.

THE INDIVIDUAL WIND APPEARS TO BE MASTERMINDING STALINA'S VISIT TO THIS COUNTRY AND THE PUBLICATION OF HER BOOK IS GEORGE F. KENNAN, #31883 (OFC), FORMER US AMBASSADOR TO THE SOU. UNION. IT WAS NE WND RECOMENDED PRISCILLA JOHNSON MCMILLAN TO HARPER AND ROW AS QUE OF FIVE RUSSIAN SPEAKING EXPERTS, MR. KENDAN SEEMS TO BE ACTING IN CONCERT WITH EDWARD S, GREEN-BAUM, WND BECAME STALIINA'S PERSONAL COUNSEL AFTER VISITING HER IN SWITZERLAND.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

4/17/78
O.G.

11110787

[APPEARS TO BE LHO ADDRESS BOOK TRACES]

(8) PAGE 61 (PAGE 22 OF REPORT)

JOHNSON-MOSCOW

JONNSON'S OS FILE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY
M. PAUL HARTMAN OF CI IN REGARD TO THE OSWALD
MATTER.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

11110783
8 APRIL 1964

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

SUBJ: LHO

ADDRESS BOOK

FBI RPT 12/31/63

Reference is made to previous memoranda concerning items found in subject's address book. The following additional info was noted from the file of OS:

[separate page]

memo to files

The following is the result of office of security file reviews or names #36-40

#36 Dammar, Hansi (Nancy)

Otkryt's (operation) 11.2.71

Biographic Register... Nancy Dammer, an employee of the State Dept, was born 8 May 1919 in Illinois. She has been assigned to several posts in the Far East and is currently in Manila.

#37 Ostonsov, Vil'yam

William HE Johnson

#289 217

#401 625 BB

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET-

11110780

Borr 10 Spot 1907 in Wash. P.C.

1934-39: teaching +research in Europe, primarily USSR.

contributed articles to *Daily Worker*

1941-47: Johnson and his wife were connected with cited organizations
close associates reported as members of the Comm. Party or Comm., sympathizers alleged that wife was CP member

1943-46: Johnson was Chief, Russia Political Section, US Military Intelligence Service

1947-1955: Carnegie Institute of Tech.

1955: University of Pittsburgh

1966-67: research in USSR, Poland, Czech, Yugo under Dept. State sponsor-ship

12 Nov. 1953: disapproved for any use by CIA.

Mar 1967: was of interest to DGS but should be approached with extreme caution and nor be exposed to classified material.

#39 Dzhons, U. Persona non grata USA
(Johns, U.)

no record

-SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

11110790

# 40 DzheRob, R.
(Jacob, R.)
Perisova/vor grata
Richard C. Jacob, #201 610 was born 24 May 1936 in Altoona, Pa.

Jacob was a CIA employee from 1960-69.
He was p.n.s.'ed as a result of the Perform DRY case. Clearance was issued for him for use as a good observer - assessor in March 1972. Is now a stock broker in new york city.

SECRET

RIF

![image of a circle with cross through it and initials IMC]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

4/17/78

1111079:

AUNE MOSBY

OS

THIRD AGENCY MATERIALS

① FBI MEMO DTD 4 NOV 1964 RE SAMMY-ESPIONAGE-
RUSSIA

② DEPT. STATE MEMO DTD 8 AUG 1967 RE CONVERSATION
W/ ALINE MOSBY

③ FBI RPT DTD 4 AUG 1964 RE ISAAC HENRY SHAPIRO,
LUDMILA SHAPIRO

④ EXTRACT FROM FOR, SVCG DISPATCH #392 FROM
AEMB MOSCOW TO WASH DAD 12 DEC 1960, SUBJ:
WESTERN CORRESP.'S IN MOSCOW

⑤ EXTRACT FROM BI DTO SEPT 1958
2,7,10,23,30 OCT. 1958.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

4/17/78
05

11110792

MOSBY, ALINE MISS T

N RECOGNIZED NAME AS CORRESPONDENT WHO WAS [COMPROMISED - NEWS ARTICLE, EVEN PHOTO - DONE BY DIRECTORATE II, DEPT 10, SECTION WORKING ON ALL CORRESPONDENTS,] IN HEARD ONLY SHE WAS [COMPROMISED DID NOT COMPROMISE HERSELF-KGB RAN OP.]

...ACCREDITED FOR NIXON USSR TRIP. JULY-AUG 59

STAMP "RECORDS OS/SRS MAY OR MAY NOT CONTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION,

BRUCE L. SOLIE."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

-SECRET

4/17/78

11110793

MOSBY, ALINE OR 72 E402610-C

/D MEM 03 APR 72 SHAPIRO, HENRY

/N MOSBY, ALINI OR EY12610-C

/A MOSBY EILEEN /YF

/D FBI 04 AUG 68 P2 SHAPIRO, ISAAC H

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

MOSBY
4/17/78
O.S.

111.10.94

MEMO

TO: ACTING CHIEF, FIOB/ SEC. RESEARCH STAFF 7 MAR6

FROM: E MENDOZA

SUBJ: ALINE MOSBY
#172 252 C
A-119

BACKGROUND

BORN 27 JULY 1922 AT MISSOULA MONTANA

B.A. DEORER FROM UNIV. MONTANA 1943

EMPLOYED UPI IN 1943 IN SEATTLE OFFICE

TRANSFERRED TO HOLLYWOOD

ALLEGEDLY FIRED BY UPI FOR LEAKING INFO TO

"CONFIDENTIAL" MAGAZINE

BECAME AFFILIATED WITH N.A.N.A. DURING 1950'S AND IN 1958 WAS KNOWN TO BE

RESIDING IN BRUSSELS

SUBSEQUENTLY REHIRED BY UPI: MOSCOW 1958-1961 ON STAFF ON HENRY SHAPIRO

SINCE 1961 WORKED IN BONN... RETURN TRIP TO MOSCOW DURING 1964

NOTATION: (HANDWRITTEN)

27 SEPT 73

CURRENT INTEREST CLOSED

BRUCE SOLI

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

-SECRET-

11110795

AGENCY INTEREST

... NO CLEARANCE REPUESTS ... COVERT INNOSTI-
GATION WAS CONDUCTED IN 1958 AT REQUEST OF
SR-DIVISION

-SECRET-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET

4/17/78

31 MAR 64 11110796

TO: CHIEF, RESEARCH BRANCH/SRS

FROM: M.D. STEVONS

SUBJ: LHO CASE

(ADDRESS BOOK)

PAGE 45 OF ADDRESS BOOK.

20575 SHARA POV

MINSK

HOUSE NO.4, APT. 24

UL. KALININA

NOTATION: OSWALD'S REF.
ADD ON LTR TO JOHN
TOWER, GEN.-TEXAS 1962.

E. MENDOZA

NAME ALSO APPEARS AS "COMRADE SHARAPOV 20525
ON STRIP OF PAPER IN OSWALD'S WALLET WHEN INTER-
VIEWED BY MARTELLO

...SECURITY INDICES

(1) LT. COL. NIKOLAI GEORGIYEVICH SHARIPOV

RIS CAREER OFFICER... OLDTIME CHEKIST W/
INTERROGATION EXP.

1942 CHIEF OF SMALL COUNTER-ESP SECTION
IN SECOND DIR. OF NKVD

1942 HELD RANK OF CAPT. AND AS OF SOME
TIME AFTER FEB 1954. WAS CHIEF OF A SECTION
IN SEVENTH CHIEF DIRECTORATE MVD

...WAS A SON ABOUT OSWALD'S AGE

...CIA INFORMATION RPT 24 FEB 1955 TITLED
"ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS AND PERSONALITIES OF
THE INKGB" WAS LISTED AS THE SUB-SECTION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

11110797

CHIEF OF THE SURVEILLANCE SECTIOU (ZZ) Of
THE INDEPENNDENT SECTIONS OF THE NKGB (х
DIRECTORATE?)

(2) E.Y. BELITSKIY IDENTIFIED P.I. SHARAPOV
AS ONE THE DIRECTOR OF ALL RUSSIAN TEXTILE
SYNDICATE IN NEW YORK CITY, SYNDICATE. EVAS
CONTROLLED BY SOVIET GOUT...

(3) LT. GEN. ANDRE, RODIONOVICH SHARAPOV OF
δανιες MIUTARY STAFF COMMITTEE AT UNITED.
NATIONS WAS INVOLVED IN SOL. ESPIONAGE CGINFO
PROVIDED TO FBI IN 1948).
TOOK OVEROLTIOS GONEAD OD IST DEPT OF SOU.
INTELLIGENCE LIV US BEFORE JUVE 1948

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET

4/17/78

11110793

PHONE NUMBERS AS of 8/15/60

72-66-81

72-43-04

(UN MOSBY NOTE TO ALEX PARKER)

MOSBY INDICES

DOLBERG, ALEX

SMITH, FITZGERALD 6/22/59

WINTERS, GEORGE P. JR. 12/16/60

BELITSKY, BORIS 9/5/58

SHAPIRO, HENRY 8/4/64

INTERVIEW 22 NOV 62 W/ GEORGE WINTERS

SUBJECT (WINTERS) STATED THAT ANOTHER NEWSPAPER
WOMAN IN MOSCOW WAS PRISCILLA JOHNSON.

NOTATION: JOHNSON ALSO CAME IN CONTACT WITH

O[illegible] IN MOSCOW.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SECRET

11/10/93
ATTACHMENT

SUBJ: BELITSKIY, BORIS YEFIMOVICH #175069-SSD
MOSBY, ALINE #172252

ACCORDING TO SEVERAL SOURCES BORIS Y. BELITSKIY IS AN ASSOCIATE OF ALINE MOSBY, WHOSE NAME APPEARED IN OSWALD'S ADDRESS BOOK.

... PRISCILLA JOHNSON, #71589-DC, SNS HAS BEEN MENTIONED IN NEWSPAPER ARTICLES AS ONE WHO RECALLED HAVING COME IN CONTACT WITH LEE HARVEY OSWALD IN MOSCOW, WHERE SHE INTERVIEWED (OR TALKED) WITH HIM. HER NAME, LIKE MOSBY, WAS LISTED IN HIS ADDRESS BOOK UNDER HER LAST NAME ONLY.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

-CONFIDENTIAL 6/30/78

ANGLETON 11110575

OFFICE OF SECURITY

MEMO 1 JULY 1975

FOR: INSPERTOR GEN'L

SEBJ: POSSIBLE QUESTIONABLE ACTIVITY

2. BACKGROUND: ON 27 JUNE JIM ANGLETON TELEPHONED WALT ELDER, DAVE AARON OF THE SSC STAFF HAD UNCOVERED A STAFF AGENT IN NEW YORK WHO HAD BEEN AN AGENCY MAFIA PENETRATION WHICH ANGLETON SAID WAS MADE ON THE AUTHORIZATION OF ATTY GEN'L ROBT F KENNEDY IN 1963. THE AGENT HAD TRIED TO CONTACT HIS CASE OFFICER BUT WAS UNSUCCESSFUL AND SO HAD INSTEAD CONTACTED ANGLETON.

3. I DISCUSSED THE MATTER WITH JOHN GREANE. IN SUMMARY, HE TOLD ME THAT THE AGENT, [MARIO BROD,] IN FEB. 1963 HAD COME INTO CONTACT WITH HERBERT ITKIN WHO HAD INFO ABOUT LINKS BETWY THE CHICAGO TEAMSTER UNION AND THE MAFIA. [BROD] REP'D THIS TO HIS CASE OFFICER, AND IN A FEW DAYS THE DDP (HELMS) DISCUSSED THE MATTER W/ RFK BECAUSE OF KENNEDY'S REQUIREMENTS FOR INFO ON HOFFA AND W/ SAM PAPICH OF THE FBI

[BROD] WAS TO BENEFICIAL AS AN FBI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

-CONFIDENTIAL 11110577

SOURCE AND TURN HIM OVER TO THEM. CIA COULD NOT TURN OVER BROD TO THE FBI BECAUSE HE WAS A LONG TIME AGENT (RECRUITED IN ITALY IN 1944 BY JAMES ANGLETON) WHO HAD OPERATIONAL INVOLVEMENTS FOR US IN HAITI AND OTHER PLACES. IN MAR 1963 BROD TURNED ITKIN OVER TO THE FBI BUT UNFORTUNATELY KEPT A STRING ON HIM. ITKIN WAS A HANDLIN PROBLEM AND FROM TIME TO TIME WOULD RETURN TO BROD FOR ADVISE AND SO FORTH. ROCCA (CI) HAD PREPARED A FULL BOOK IN THE ITKIN/BROD CASE BUT THEY ONLY ARE MENTIONED IN PSEUDO.

9 JUNE 1975 TIME ARTICLE NAMED CERTAIN MAFIOSO IN CONLECTION W/ CIA

-CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

-CONFIDENTIAL-

11110573

ANGLETON

OFFICE OF SECURITY

(TELETYPE NOV 1974
FM FRIS LONDON
TO RUDIC/AMEMB LONDON)

ANGLETON INTERVIEW / LONDON DOMESTIC T.V.

A: WELL, I CAN SAY THAT MAIL COVERAGE WAS VERY SUCCESSFUL ON OSWALD

...

CORR: WHAT DO YOU MEAN SUCCESSFUL

A: WELL, SUCCESSFUL IN THE SENSE THAT WHEN HE APPEARED AS THE ASSASSIN OF THE PRES. AND WHEN I WENT BACK IN THE FIELDS THERE WAS CORRESPONDENCE FROM MOSCOW THAT GAVE AN INSIGHT THAT NO AGENTS COULD POSSIBLY HAVE GIVEN TO THE MAN

...

-CONFIDENTIAL-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# SECRET

GED. DE MOUREUSCHILDT

OFFICE OF SECURITY

11110573

MEMO 12/30/74 BY JERRY G. BROWN, SAS

LEFT DALLAS AFTER 19 ARR 1963 FOR A TRIP
TO N.Y., PHILA. AND WASH. DC, THEN TRAVELING
TO HAITI

NO INFO IN TESTIMONY ON WHOM, TERRY HAD
CONTACT W, & WHAT THEY WERE DOING 19 APR-
LATE MAY 1963

ON APR 29 1963 GALE ALLEN, DOD CASE OFFICER
HAD REQUESTED AN EXPEDITE CHECK ON DE M
"EXACT REASON UNKNOWN"

"IT IS INTERESTING THAT ALLEN'S INTEREST IN DE M
COINCIDED BY THE EARLIER PORTION OF THIS
TRIP AND THE INFO WOULD SUGGEST THAT POSSI-
BLY ALLEN & DEM WERE POSSIBLY IN THE SAME
ENVIRONMENT IN WASH DC CIRCA 26 APR 1963"

MEMO 8 APR 1964

[ED TORAZ]. CIA CABLE IN 68452 [FROM ]
[MANAGUA] DATED 20 NOV 1963 RELATING TO
OSWALD MATTER CONTAINS INFO REGARDING
ONE E. TORRES (PROBABLY EDELBERTO TORRES OF
MEXICO CITY

TORRES ALSO MENTIONED IN CABLE IN 68376

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

11110580

FROM [MEXICO CITY] DATED 26 NOV. 1962

H. WARNER KLOEPFER

WAS OF INTEREST TO 00/C [DOMESTIC CONTACTS SERVICE] DURING SEPT 1963, APPARENTLY IN RELATION TO OSI [OFF. SCIENT. INTELL.] REQUIREMENTS

MEMO 1/7/44

MAJOR BISHOP 179 E. 79 ST NYC

GIVEN AS REFERENCE BY GEO DE M

-SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

CONFIDENTIAL

EPSTEIN

OFFICE OF SECURITY

1111058:

MEMO 26 SEPT 1977

FOR: DEP. DIR. SECURITY

FROM: BRUCE SOLIE
CHIEF, SECURITY ANALYSIS GROUP

GORDON STEWART, FORMER DIR. OF PERSONNEL AND
INSPECTOR GENERAL (RET. 1971) WAS I.G. IN
EARLY 1968

SELECTED BY DCI TO ACT IN A MIDDLE-MAN
CAPACITY IN CONTROVERSY OVER NOSENKO CASE

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# SECRET

IRVING DAVIDSON

OFFICE OF SECURITY

11110582

1/19/21 PITTSBURGH, PA

CONFIDENTIAL MEMO APRIL 11, 1977

RECORDS OF OPERATIONAL LIAISON OFFICE, DDO

(MR. CHAS. ENRIGHT) DISCLOSED NO DDO RELATIONSHIP BY DAVIDSON.

RECORDS OF CIA OFF OF SEC (ERVAN KUHNKE)

NOTED INFORMAL CONTACT OF CLAND BY DAVIDSON PRIOR TO JULY 16, 1971...

JULY 1971 A REP OF GEN'L COUNSEL CIA ADVISED MR. HENRY PETERSON, CHIEF, CRIM. DIV., DEPT. JUSTICE THAT DAVIDSON HAD FURNISHED SOME INFO TO CIA BUT THAT IT WAS INSUFFICIENT INTEREST TO WARRANT CIA INTERFERENCE W/ PROS OF DAVIDSON

MEMO 12 APR 71

FOR: GEN'L CONSEL

SUBJ: ISADORE IRVING DAVIDSON

A REVIEW OF SUBJ'S 201, SECURITY AND DOMESTIC CONTACT SERV FILE DOES NOT REFLECT ANY USE OF SUBJ BY THIS AGENCY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

AT ANY TIME

SECRET

11110583

MEMO 16 JULY 1971
BY JOHN S. GREANNY, ASST GEN'L COUNSEL

FOLLOWING RECORDS TELE COMERÇATION WI
MR. HENRY POTERSEN, CRIM DIV., DEPT JUSTICE
ON 13 JULY... DAVIDSON IS DEFENDANT IN A
MAIL FRAUD AND BANKRUPTCY LASE IIN DIST.
IN CALIF. DAVIDSON NAS BEEN A FRONT
MAN FOR JIMMIE NOFFA AND SPECIFICALLY
INVOLVED WY THE WEST COAST TEAMSTERS,
HEOLD BY BEVERLY RIDGE
CHARCE OF CONCEALING ASSETS OF INTERSTATE
EXCAVATION COMPANY

3.  WITH IN THE LAST TEN DAYS, A FLURRY of
    RUMORS OF PRESSURE BEING BROUGHT TO BEAR
    INFLUENCE ON THE JUST. DEFT HOVE DEVELOPED.

a. MEMO POU HELMS TO ATTY GEN MITCHELL

b. MEMO FROM NEIMS TO DEP. ATTY GEN KLEIN
DEINST

c. MEMO FROM ASST AG MARDIAN, HERNAL.
SEL αν TO ASST ATTY GEN WILSON, HERNAL

d. LETTER TO MURRAY CHOTINER FROM MAJOR
GEN YARIV CHIEF ISRAEL MILI. INTELL.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SECRET

11110584

TELETYPE 28 APR 1971

4. AS HQS AWARE, DAVIDSON IS OCCASIONAL [ODENVY] INFORMANT AND HE THUS MAY BE WILLING COOPERATE WITH [WODISH] IF NOT [WOOLACE.]

WASH POST 9/29/64

CHARLES MADE TRIP TO US CITIES, INCLUDING DALLAS IN EARLY 1964 TO BUY BOATS AND OTHER WEAPONS

MEMO 25 APR 1962

USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPID THAT ON 30 NOV 1957 WHILE IN MEXICO CITY DAVIDSON WANTED INFO AT "ALMOST ANY PRICE" FOR INFO ON GUATEMALAN, NICARA-GUAN AND COSTA RICAN EXILE ACTIVITY IN MEXICO FOR SUBMISSION TO PRES. SOMOZA OF NICARAGUA

DAVIDSON SAID HE REPORTS DIRECTLY TO WHITE HOUSE THRU FRANK BERRY OF EISENHOWER'S STAFF CONCERNING CENTRAL AMER. ACTIVITIES. DAVIDSON WAS ACCOMPANIED TO MEXICO BY W.D. FELDER III OF W.D. FELDERT CO., COTTON MERCHANTS OF DALLAS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

CIA 1:00 PM

SECRET

11110585

Murphy interviewed

1963 fare for. Sec. Chif
East European Div. before that

case run by for Div at time of '62
contact

SP was responsible for actual
tarding
dasn't remember

N case was low priority because of
interest in developing other areas

for did nor have full access to 8
material

not aware of conclusions of C/
staff from 1962 or

CI staff was Rept abreast of tarding
9 case but didn't actually
participate
not aware of what differences there
were

N's info didn't clarify overlap w/o
new info

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET 11110586

mros apr 64 pressursor for Diw to resolve caused decisions made ta charge typer intersection. I staff want to float fer lorg ltting te was lovel but sor sin kata tmuk too шала resowe r ultimate decision rade by Des also rature & locale vip made a nportart to resolve

CIA in perival was particularly sative to peretration; tara caves in friendly eugence agen

FBI ted cortact dining interrogation thay dia voi tave perctration problem

M were or Tor forments is fure 67 to mit Euro stations review & N was prompted by ador. Jaylor & Gordor Stewart 9 16

left Juk '68

1. wrap by SR w/ ro conclusion
2. a staff report
3. folie report

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

11110587
SECRET

16 report faryspury 68

CI may any fave encapsulated

CI was coordinating poire for all
up to WC+ FBT or Oswald in Soviet union.

SR worked up traces & exploration or associates & life in soviet umor

SR or CI may have done work up or Oswald's contacts up or Kostikov or Golub

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

IRVING DAVIDSON

OFFICE OF SEURITY

DOC:

MEMO 7 JAN 1964

FROM: ROBT GOTTSCHILING

11110583

CONF. INFORMANT RECENTLY ADVISED THAT
PRES. OF HAITI DURING LAST WEER OF DOC. 1963
SENT CONF MESSAGE TO SUBU [DAVIDSON]
CONTENTS UUT KNOWN

DOC

NEWS CLIP
WASH. POCST 9/29/64 BY NORMAN GALL

HAITIAN PRES. DUVALIER REU'D PURCHASE OF
TWO T-28 FIGHTER PLANES FROM DALLAS,
FIGHTER PLANES FLOWN TO HAITI ILLEGALLY

DAVIDSON VISITED HAITI MAY 1963 W/
TWO DALLAS ARMS SUPPLIERS

DUVALIER MADE DOWN PAYMENT W/ LETTER
OF CREDIT FOR $200,000 DRAWN ON BANQUE
COMMERCIAL OF PORT-AU-PRINCE

PRES. - PRINCIPAL STOCKNOLOCER OF BANQUE
IS CLEMENT JOS. CHARLES... CLOSE DUVALIER
ALLY

EARLIER THIS YEAR MADE SHOPPING TRIP
-SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SEGRET

11110583

TO US, INCL. DALLAS TO BUY BOATS AND OTHER
WEAPONS

9/30/64 TRANSACTION WENT THROUGH MEX BANK

STAR
6/10/65 DOMESTICALLY, DAVIDSON REPRESENTS TEXAS CORP.
OWNED BY MURCHISON INTERESTS AND
FRIENDSHIP WL BOBBY BAKER

DOC MEMO 12/28/59 SECRET
FROM JAN MCCORD
RE DAVIDSON, IRVING I.
SEE FILE ON DONALD HOGAN & DAVID PHILLIPS
FOR ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFO ON DAVIDSON

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SECRET

11110590

SYLVIA LUDLOW HYDE HOKE

OFFICE OF SECURITY (SOFT FILE)

SEE OSI (USAF) RPT DTD 12/14/56 (#33-3439)

TITLE: SILHA LUDLOW HYDE HOKE

SEE FBI RPTS 9/17/56-2/6/57)

FD. 204, 5/7/54

DOC: INDEX: HYDE, WM. A.

FBI RPT 21 SEPT 56

DOC: MEMO FOR THE RECORD 7/30/71

SUBJ: HOKE, SYLVIA

FILE # 318201

IDENTIFIED AS CIA EMPLOYEE IN '61 ISSUE OF

FALLS CHURCH VA. DIR.

BRUCE L. SOLIE

DEPUTY CHIEF, SRS.

DOC: MEMO 9 MAY 67.

FROM: E. MENDOZA/SRS

SUBJ: SYLVIA LUDLOW HOKE

DAUGHTER OF WM A HYDE G 157435

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

SECRET

1111059

MOTHER-IN-LAW IS HELEN KHOKE WATTS,

PARTNER IN NY PUBLISHING FIRM WI DOROTHY
WILSON, AKA DOROTHY WILSON SELIGSON, AKA
MRS. LOU SELIGGON, IDEN. AS MEMBER OF CP
1962-63 WILSON HAD CONTACT W/ ISADORE
GIBBY NEED LEMAN CONCERNING FINANCIAL PAY-
MENTS FROM BERNARD GEIS

DOC:

MEMO 5 DEC 1963

FROM: CHIEF, RESEARCH BRANCH/OS/SRS SOLIE

WM. HYDE CONSIDERED FOR LOVERT USE
IN VIETNAM IN 1957 BUT NOT USED

POSSIBILITY THAT WM. AVERY HYDE WAS FATHER
OF RUTH PAINE WAS PREVIOUSLY BROUGHT TO THE
ATTENTION OF MR. PAPICH THROUGH MR. O'NEAL,
CI/SIG

DOC:

MEMO TO BRUCE SOLIE 21 DEC 1955

FROM TALBOT BIELEFELDT

SUBJ: ORR, PAUL, VIOLET AND OTHERS.

WM. A HYDE WAS IN WASH. THIS LAST WEEK-
END VISITING JOHN & SYLVA HOKE. HOKE INVITED
BIELEFELDT & RICHARD JENKINS OVER SINCE
THEY HAD BEEN FRIENDS AT STANDORD

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

11110592

SECRET

DOC:

MEMO FROM SOLIE 6/15/55

REQ THAT FILE BE SET UP ON SYLVIA HYDE

HOKE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

-SECRET-

11110593

RUTH HYDE PAINE

OFFICE OF SEC. (SOFT FILE)

MEMO 25 MAR 64

TO CHIEF/ EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH

SUBS. TALBOT BIELEFELOT

SUBJ REPORTED PHONE CALL FROM MRS. CAROL
HYDE, MOTHER OF RUTH PAINE; PAINE IN WASH.
TO TESTIFY BEFORE WARREN COMM.

SUBJ STATED HE MIGHT VISIT MRS. HYDE BUT
BELIEVES HE WILL NOT VISIT MRS. PAINE

-SECRET-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

-SECRET

CIA FILE REVIEW

11110594

JOHN LINDSAY HOKE

OFFICE OF SECURITY (SOFT FILE)

SEE FBI RPT 9/21/56

TITLE: SYLVIA LUDLOW HYDE HIKE

FD-204; 5/7/54

DOC: REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF LIAISON /RENEWAL

13 AUG 64

TO: CHIEF, EMPLOYEE ACTIVITY BRANCH PSD/OS

SUBJ: REQ FOR SECURITY APPROVAL OF LIAISON ON A CONTINUING BASIS

HARRY W. KISTNER AND OTHER SUCH MEMBERS OF ENGINEERING STAFF DESIGNATED BY HIM

TITLE: COMMUNICATIONS RESOURCES SPECIALIST

AID/ WASH. DC

SECRET CLASSIFICATION

DOC: REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF LIAISON/RENEWAL

22 AUG 1963

DOC: REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF LIAISON

21 AUG 1962

-SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# BIOGRAPHY

B. 30 OCT. '27 IN NIKOLAYEV, UKRAINE

DEFECTED 4 FEB. '64

FATHER: IVAN ISIDOROVICH NOSENKO

PROMINENT SOV. SHIPBUILDING ENG,

BECAME SOV. MINISTER OF SHIPBUILDING IN MOSCOW

ATTENDED NAVAL TRAINING SCHOOLS

ATTEND OF WAR: ENTERED INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS IN MOSCOW

MARRIED IN 1947 TO DAUGHTER OF SOV, LT. GEN.

MARRICE DISSOLVED AFTER STALIN'S PURGE OF FATHER-IN-LAW

1950 JOINED SOV. NAVAL INTELLIGENCE SERVICE AND SERVED IN FAR EAST AND IN BALTIC

EARLY 1953 TRANSFERED TO KGB: ASSIGNED AS COUNTERINTELLIGENCE OFFICER OF AMER. EMB. SECTION OF THE AMER. DEPT.

JUNE 1953 MARRIED DAUGHTER OF FIRST. DEPUTY CHIEF OF STATE COMM FOR COOR. OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH WORK; WIFE AND CHILDREN LEFT IN SOV. UNION WHEN HE DEFECTED

JUNE 1955 TRANSFERRED TO TOURIST SECTION OF SEVENTH DEPT. OF KGB INTERNAL COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE DIRECTORATE

JOINED COMMUNIST PARTY IN 1957

PRIMARILY INVOLVED IN OPERATIONS DESIGNED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

11110523

TO RECRUIT AMER. AND BRITISH COMMON WEALTH
TOURISTS

1957, 1958 USED ALIAS YURIY IVANOVICH NICOLA-
YEZ WENT TO LONDON AS SECURITY ESCORT
FOR SOV. SPORTO DELEGATION

1958 JANED AMER-BRIT COMONWEALTH SECTION
OF SEVENEN DEST TO IDENTIFYING AND RECRUIT
FOR
ING FOREIGIN INTELLIGENCE AGENTS VISITING
SOU. U. AS TOURISTS; INCL. CI OPS INVOLVING
ENTRAPMENT

JAN. 1960 TRANSFERRED TO AYER. EMB. SECTION OF
THE AMER. DEPT.; RESPONSIBLE FOR MONITORING
CONTACTS BETW US EMB PERSONNEL AND SOV,
CITS AND FOR COLLECTING OF INFO ON AMER.
EMB. PERSONNEL TO FACILITATE RECRUITMENT

MARCH 1962 ACCOMPANIED SOVIET DELEGATION
TO THE DIGARUAMENT CONF. IN CENEVA AS.
SEC ESCORT

JAN 1964 RETURNED TO GENEVA AS SEC ESCORT
FUR SOV. DELE TO DIGARMAMENT CONF IN GENEVA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

SECRET 5/2/78

11110520

FILE: EXAMINATION OF BONA FIDES OF A KGB DEFECTI

FEB. 1968

CI

NOTE ON COVER:

...CIA FINDS THIS STUDY TO BE INACCURATE IN MANY IMPORTANT DETAILS AND TO OBTAIN THE RESULTS OF FAULTY JUDGMENTS LEADING TO UNFOUNDED CONCLUSIONS

INTERROGATION PERIODS

P. 5

12 FEB 1964 ARRIVED IN WASH. D.C.

14 FEB 1964 MET W/ REPS OF SWISS AND SOVIET GOVT.; RENDOUNCED USSR CITIZENSHIP

18 FEB INITIAL DEBRIEFING COMPLETED

24 FEB INTRODUCED TO FBI FOR DESTIONING

12-26 MAR. HAWAII VACATION

4 APR PLACED IN PERMANENT SAFEHOUSE OUT SIDE WASH. D.C.; POLYGRAPH BEGUN

24 APR INTERROGATION COMPLETED

MAY - NOV. FRIENDLY INTERROGATION

INTERIM CONSULTATION W/ FBI

26 JAN 1965 - 5 MAR HOSTILE INTERROGATION

FEB 1965 N. EXECUTED PROTOCOLS

26 JULY-14 AUG. FURTHER INTERROGATION

19-25 OCT. 1966 " "

MAY 1965 3 WEEK INTERROGATION BY PSYCHIATRIST AND PSYCHOLOGIST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

SECRET

11110530

OCT. 1966 INTERROGATION ENDED

P.20
SOVIET OFFICIALS CLAIMED N.'S DEFECTION CAUSED SEVERE DAMAGE TO KGB, PROMPTED EXPULSION AND DISGRACE OF NUMEROUS SENIOR KGB PERSONNEL, CAUSED RECALL OF PERSONNEL FROM ABROAD, SUSPENSION OF OPERATIONS IN U.S.

59
DESPITE HIS CLAIMED ACTIVE COMMISSIONED SERVICE IN THE NAVY, N. KNOWS NOTHING OF SOV. NAVY TRADITION, DOCTRINE, ORGANIZATION, OR PROCEDURES, HE DISCLAIMS KNOWLEDGE OF RU ORGANIZATION OTHER THAN AT THE POSTS WHERE HE SERVED, "BECAUSE OF HIS JUNIOR RANK." HOWEVER, EVEN AT THOSE POSTS HE DESCRIBES NEITHER THE STAFF, THE FUNCTIONS NOR THE PERSONNEL INTELLIGIBLY NOR DOES HE DESCRIBE THE POSTS' ACTUAL LOCATIONS."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

Dobrynin
Undertyped
Kostikov
Lopez
Mcmurrer
Mosby

1111053:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

BRADI

SEGRET

11110532

FILE: NOSENKO INTERROGATION TRANSCRIPT

REEL #1 26 JULY 1965 (DERYABIN) COMPLETE
TRANSLATION OF VERBATIM TRANSCRIPT

P. WHENCE & HOW DID YOU SHOW UP IN CITY OF MOSCOW

A. AT END OF 1952 ARRIVED IN MOSCOW FROM CITY
OF SOVETSK, PRIMORSKIY KRAY (10-15 KILO. FROM
CITY OF BALTIYSK, FORMERLY PILLAU - BASE OF
FOURTH NAVAL FLEET OF BALTIC

NAVY INTELLIGENCE POINT IS IN SOVETSK-
WORKED THERE FOR SEVERAL MONTHS IN 1952
WENT TO MOSCOW TO WORK IN NAVY INTELLIGENCE
AND THEN AND SOMETHING ELSE

WAS ON ONE-MONTH LEAVE WHEN HE WENT TO
MOSCOW, DID NOT HAVE TO REPORT TO HQ
(D. DISPUTES THAT IT WOULD BE POSSIBLE TO GO
ON LEAVE AND RELOCATE W/O REPORTING)

P.14

WHILE ON LEAVE IN MOSCOW "THE BUSINESS
AROSE THAT I WOULD BE TAKEN TO WORK IN
THE MOB" (MINISTRY OF STATE SECURITY)

QUESTION OF BEING TRANSFERRED TO MGB CAME

P AT KOBLOU'S DACHA AT ABOUT 1/1/53, PARENTS
PRESENT

LATER CONTACTED BY MINISTRY OF STATE SEC.
AND TOLD TO REPORT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

11110533

SECRET

ASSERTS THAT PERSON WHO WORKED IN KGB WOULD KNOW PERFECTLY STATE RULES AND REGULATIONS INSTEAD OF MERELY GUESSING WHAT PROCEDURES WOULD HAVE BEEN)

57 CANNOT REMEMBER NAME OF PERSONNEL QUESTIONNAIRE ("ANKETA") THAT HE FILLED OUT

75 AT BEGINNING OF APRIL MET W/ GORBATENKO OF FIRST DEPT., FIRST SECTION AS CASE OFFICER COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AGAINST AMERICAIN EMB.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

BRADY

4/26/78

11110534

FILE: NOSENKO INTERROGATION TRANSCRIPT

REEL #2: 26 JULY 1965 (DERYABIN) COMPLETE TRANSLATION OF VERBATIM TRANSCRIPT

P. 1-4 D. QUESTIONS FACT THAT N. DID NOT KNOW A SECOND SAVCHENKO WHO WAS LT. GENERAL IN KGB

5 NOSENKO'S CHIEFS: FEDOTOV, SHUBNYAKOV, GRIBAINOV

9 NOSENKO STATES HE REC'D PAY OF 1700 RUBLES PLUS 500 FOR RANK.

D. CLAIMS NO PAY WAS GIVEN FOR RANK AT TIME

N. BEGAN IN MAR. 1953

27 N. SERVED AS INTERPRETER-TRANSLATOR OF INTELLIGENCE OF THE SEVENTH NAVAL FLEET IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN

28 AFTERWARDS WORKED IN BALTIC IN 1952 AS A SENIOR INTERPRETER-TRANSLATOR OF THE MAG, MRP OF INTELLIGENCE OF THE FOURTH NAVAL FLEET IN THE BALTIC

41 CANNOT TELL MAIN SAFE APT OR SURVEILLANCE BASE OF 1ST DEPT FOR 1953-55

42 N. NAMES SAFE APTS OF SURVEILLANCE OF THE SECOND CHIEF DIRECTORATE

VOSSTANIYE SQUARE

AREA OF KROPOTKINSKAYA BRIDGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

SECRET

11110535

OPPOSITE THE EMBASSY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

SECRET

FILE [DONALD J. PARICK]

O.P.

11110537

CONVERTED TO PSEUDO PER REQUEST FROM PAUL HART-

MAN: 2/5/74

ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS:

DDP DIRECTORATE

SOVIET BLOC

[AESPHINX] [FORMERLY [AETONER]]

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

MAY 1944 TRANSFERRED TO GUKR/MGB MOSCOW
AND COMPLETED COURSE AT HIGHER COUNTER-IN-
TELLIGENCE SCHOOL IN MAY 1945

MAY 1945 TRANSFERRED TO COUNTER-INTELLI-
GENCE DIRECTORATE FOR NAVY, SERVING AS IT'S
KOMSOMOL SECRETARY

MAY 1946 TRANSFERRED BACK TO ROME AREA W/
MGB

APRIL 1947-JUNE 1951 ASSIGNED TO CHIEF
DIRECTORATE OF THE GOVT. GUARD, PROMOTED TO
MAJOR IN 1949

JUNE 1951 - DEFECTION 1954 MGB OPERATIONS
OFFICER AT MOSCOW HD & ABROAD

* MEMO IN LIEU OF FITNESS REPORT 26 SEPT 1973
  BY [WM.TING]

HAS PREPARED MAJOR ANALYSES ON TWO PERSONS
WHO APPEAR TO HAVE BEEN SOVIET PENETRATIONS.

101 PAGES, 425 PAGES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

SECRET

11110536

FILE: NOSENKO INTERROGATION TRANSCRIPT

REEL #3: 28 JULY 1965 (DERYABIN) COMPLETE TRANSLATION OF VERBATIM TRANSCRIPT

P. 3 WAS IN KOUSOMOL 1943-1954

6 AT END OF 1953 ELECTED SEC. OF PARTY ORGANIZATION OF SECOND CHIEF DIRECTORATE

23 RE: NOW HE BECAME SECRETARY OF KOMSOMOL ORG.

245 DOES NOT REMEMBER KOMSOMOL COMM. REP.

DOES NOT REMEMBER HOW KOMSOMOL ELECTIONS ARE CARRIED OUT

32 DOES NOT REMEMBER NUMBER OF KOMSOMOL IDENTIFICATION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# DERYABIN

INTERROGATED NOSENKO DURING 26 JULY-13 AUG 1965

27 NOV 1963

MEMO FOR: CHIEF SR/CI

SUBJ: PETER DERYABIN COMMENTS ON PRES. KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION

BENEFITS TO KRUSCHEV OF JK'S DEATH:

1. LESS WESTERN PRESSURE ON KRUSCHEV; CONCILIATORY US ATTITUDE

2. DIVERSION FOR INTERNAL SOVIET PROBS (PROBS OF 1963 HARVEST, CHICOM ARGUMENTS)

3. BECAUSE OF CASTRO ALLEGATIONS, JOHNSON WOULD RESTRAIN FROM ANY PLANNED INTERVENTION IN CUBA

4. KRUSCHEV'S HAND WOULD BE STRENGTHENED IN DEALING WITH CHICOMS

5. ANY PLANS BY JAK TO GET TOUGH WITH SOVIETS DURING ELECTION YEAR WOULD THUS BE SABOTAGED

6. DE GAULLE WOULD EMERGE AS STRONG WESTERN LEADER; HE WAS SUPPORTIVE OF SOVIETS

7. RISING INTELLECTUAL DISSENSION IN USSR WOULD BE TRIWARTED

8. THE ASSASSINATION WOULD PIT RIGHT AND


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

SECRET

11110533

LEFT IN USA AGAINST EACH OTHER

9. JFK'S MURDER, WHETHER PLANNED OR NOT, WILL PROVE POWER AND OMNISCIENCE OF KEB

. THE SOVIET INTELLIGENCE SERVICES HAVE SUFFERED SOME VERY REAL REVERSES RECENTLY WITH PENKOVSKY, GOLITSIN'S DEFECTION, THEIR IGNOMINIOUS EXPULSION FROM THE CONGO, ETC. I HAVE LONG PREDICTED THAT THE USSR WOULD TAKE SOME DRASTIC ACTION TO WALT THE RAPID EPOSION OF THEIR SECURITY

RAISES POSSIBILITY THAT OSWALD WAS "INVITED" TO MOSCOW OR INSPIRED" TO TRAVEL TO USER AND GIVEN ADVICE OR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

SOVIETS
THAT FEB NEVER GIVE A VISA WITHOUT MAKING AN INVESTIGATION OF THE PERSON MAKING THE APPLICATION

WAS THE PERCION WHO GAVE USWALD THE VICA A KGB AGGIT OR EMPLOYEE

IN MOSCOW OSWALD WOULD HAVE BEEN UNDER OBSERVATION, INVESTIGATION AND "COMPLETE CONTROL BY KGB; WOULD HAVE GOTTEN ALL POSSIBLE INFO FROM HIM, ESPECIALLY ABOUT SERVICE IN MARINE CORPS

-SEORET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SECRET
11110540

ANY FOREIGNER ESPECIALLY AN AMERICAN WOULD
BE UNDER CONSTANT OBSERVATION AND STUDY
FOR POSSIBLE FUTURE USE BY SOU. INTELL. AND
C.I. SERVICES

BELIEVES SOVIETS WOULD HAVE CONDUCTED INVEST-
GATION OF O. THROUGH SOV. AGENT NETWORKS
+ PRO COMMUNIST ORGS. W/IN USA

THAT INITIAL REFUSAL TO MAKE HIM A SOVIET
CITIZEN WOULD HAVE BEEN FOR PURPOSE OF
FURTHER STUDY AND INV.

THEORY:
AFTER O. ASKED TO RETURN TO U.S. WAS ASKED
TO FIGHT FOR COMMUNIST CAUSE W/IN THE CSA

THAT STATE SECURITY METHOD OF HANDLING
FOREIGNERS WOULD BE TO MAKE MARINA AN
AGENT

IF MARINA WERE NOT INVITED TO OFFICIAL SOVIET
OFFICES IN AN ATTEMPT TO TALK HER OUT OF
THE MARRIAGE, THAT WOULD INDICATE IT WAS
ARRANGED BY KGB.

IF MARRIAGE AND PAPERWORK WERE ARRANGED
AFTER ONLY FEW MONTHS WAIT, WOULD INDICATE
IT HAD BEEN HANDLED BY KGB


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

JAMES HERBERT MARTIN

1111054

OFFICE OF SECURITY

"SOFT FILE" = MATERIALS FROM INDEX; DID NOT HAVE ACTUAL FILE ON HIM

23 MAY 1968

MEMO FOR: CHIEF, CI & TA

ATTN: [MR. KESLER]

SUBJ: MARTIN, JAMES HERBERT

PER YOUR REQUEST OF 10 MAY 1968 FOR A SEARCH OF OS INDICES ON ONE JAMES HERBERT MARTIN, ATTACHED IS A SUMMARY OF INFO AVAILABLE ON SUBJ IN OS RECORDS

PAUL F. GAYNOR
CHIEF, SEC. RESEARCH STAFF/OS

... COULD NOT BE IDENTIFIED W/ ANY ONE OF THE SAME NAME WND APPEARS IN OS INDICES

... COPY OF NEWSPAPER CLIPPING... WASHINGTON POST FOR 28 FEB 1964... ONLY INFO AVAILABLE IN OS RECORDS ON SUBJ

... WASHINGTON POST ARTICLE:

WIFE'S AGENT DENIES OSWALD PLOT ON NIXON

-SECRET-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

SURELL BRADY

11110542

MURRET, MARILYN DOROTHY

201-761577

D.O.B. 14 JUL 28

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1963-1965

DELETIONS: FBI REPORT, 1964

PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

TUBE STA.: DW 6

DATE 17 SEPT 1964

SOURCE DOC.: FBI REPORT 7 MAY 1964

COUNTRY OF LOCATION: PAKISTAN

ACTION DESL: [S1/SIG CODE 731]

COMMENTS: LISTED AS ONE OF THE "MOST WANTED"
DEFECTORS IN THE ALLEN-SCOTT REPORT OF
MAR. 26, 1964

DOC. TRANSFER & CROSS REF.

PERTINENT INFO

9 DEC 63: FBI N.O. WAS CONTACTED RELATIVE
TO THEIR INTERVIEW W/ SUBJ, COUSIN OF LEE
HARVEY OSWALD, AND SHE DENIED HAVING SEEN
OSWALD AT ANY TIME OUTSIDE THE U.S.

DOC. TRANSFER & CROSS REF.

SUBJ. ACTUAL OR POTENTIAL DEFECTOR

11 FEB 65

201-761577 100-002-077

R 6507141156


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

SRELL BRADY
3/7/78

SECRET

SHIRAKOVA, RIMA
201-803914

11110543

HEE ZMITRYUK - MARRIED NAME
HUSBAND VALERIY ZMITRYUK B. 29 OCT, 1937,
ENGINEERING STUDENT

MEMO

DEPT. OF STATE, BUREAU OF INTELL. &RESEARCH
TO DEP. DIR. PLAINS, CIA (DATE NOT LEGIBLE)
ATTN: MR. CALVIN TENNEY
SUBJ: ZMITROOK, RIMA -- LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S
INTOURIST GUIDE IN MOSCOW

"ALTHOUGH COMPLETE FILES AT OUR OFFICE OF
SPECIAL CONSULAR SERVICES NO LONGER ARE
AVAILABLE ON PERSONS WHO MIGHT HAVE SOUGHT
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AT EMBASSY MOSCOW
BETWEEN 1958 AND 1963..."

DISPATCH 15 AUG. 1966

AFTER BIRTH OF HER DAUGHTER IN OCT. 1963
SHIRAKOVA LEFT (NTOURIST AND WAS EMPLOYED AS A
TEACHER OF ENGLISH. IN A MOSCOW TEACHER'S
TRAINING COLLEGE.

BORN: 19 JAN 1939

DATE OF MARRIAGE: 1923

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# CIA Briefing

11110544

basis for opening 201 file

operational interest is invidial (mostly foreigners): potential recruit rent

would trace fires in the fela or syster for any info of the persor tracking ar individual: e.s. foreign specialist, cousteristlige

sometimes wher there are several files of a person it is more convenient to put it all in ore free = 201

tracing = ruming trouyt all variatio of persons rame, computer prist-out

casi officer could intiate 201 fure; te's vovally nosc Proveedgeable.

Aypo: rehable tip Grat persor is αν closing mistars secrets.

quagmire call as to whiter 201 file is opered, but the rane info would be passed or torrexiy, ever if a 201 fire is not spered


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

SECRET
11110545

routine 201 criteria:
recruitment
high-level foreign officer
there are written regulations govern
ing these criteria

some operations are run from HQ, are not the field, so the HQ officer would initiate the 201 file

PRO I: Biographical info
II: bio. data, assessment, surveillance results (may be filed after contact of the individual)
they would be located in 201 file;
sometimes II is not made, so it won't necessarily be included w/ I

Tere is dual filing: pseudonym or cryptonym will not be filed w/ name file; PRO II will usually use cryptonym, so they would be stored elsewhere

you cover index check to locate all files, or original file should refer to other files

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

SECRET

11110546

status of sheet in 201 file should be maintained to reference other files

201 file is biographical, not operational

criteria for classifications sources detailed criteria *etios* (e.g. writing collaborator)

e.g. writing collaborator

writing

potential writing collaborator

former writing collaborator

potential/never contacted

(classes A1 - A7)

201

There is table of contents list to files ask for that: computer will spit out other file references and all material which has been classi- fied into that file

free list ispo = compiled through communications intelligence (no longer *etios*, used to be kept separately)

KCIEE = special clearance

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

SECRET 11110547

yarotter agency u crameting ar
operation PCS would wairtain
file to coordinare CIA's involvement

voucher system
agent in the field is most likely ur-...
vouchered
(see Director of Finance)

prescribed & limited (P+L) = Communica-
tions which are compartmented (e.g.
sealed envelopes)

"PTL traffic channel" is determined
by top three DDO staff
that info may be downgraded subse-
quently.

destruction of docs is prescribed by
archives, materials are not de-
stroyed due to nature of the opera-
tion

Soviets use parallel system.
dual intelligence with no cross
reference between the two

Cryptonym may be used for associates
(e.g. family members) but that does
not necessarily near a 201 file

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

11110543

-SEGRET

would exist for each of their

detection & American soldiers may be
primarily military rather
201 file would not be opened unless
there was operational interest
CI staff did have interest in
defector in 40's

G1 did at one time maintain
separate file of their interests
our effort is being made now to
integrate those files into HQ system

547 A form = request to put document
into central files
very sensitive operations have very
limited access; person handling
would make decision whether to
put documents into system
there can be operations for which files
do not exist
It is possible that 201 file would not
reflect a particular operation

cryptonym may exist for project, for
which no 201 would exist
operation file are separately
maintained by desk in charge.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

11110540

what sources feed into their original

if so

are there any files in the field that
are not also maintained at HQ

are there other interests which result
in other types of files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

CIA
11110550

Operational files can usually be disposed of after 10 years; individual files are maintained 50 years. It is possible that after an operational file is destroyed, the individual's name file may not refer to or disclose the operation.

Officer Personnel files are maintained separately from 201 files.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

SECRET

11110754

FILE: ALL MATERIAL REC'D FROM AMBASSADOR DOBRYNIN RELATING TO OSWALD (SOU. GOVT. DOCs) 1964

MEMO FOR: J. LEE RANKIN

SUBJ: DOCS ON OSWALD FURNISHED BY SOU. GOVT.

C. THE INCLUSION OF MARINA'S VISA APPLICATION BUT IS SINGULAR IN VIEW OF FACT THAT COMM. HAD NOT REQUESTED INFO ON MARINA. MOREOVER, THE DOC PURPORTING TO BE AN APPLICATION FOR AN EXIT VISA HARDLY QUALIFIES AS SUCH. WE KNOW FROM THE CASES OF OTHER SOU. CITIZENS THAT SUCH PERSONS ARE REQ'D TO PROVIDE CONSIDERABLY MORE INFO THAN WAS REFLECTED IN MARINA'S APPLICATION. MOREOVER, IN INTER-VIEWS MARINA REFERRED TO HAVING FILLED OUT THE NECESSARY FORMS AND O. NOTED IN HIS DIARY THAT ABOUT 20 DOCS WERE NEC TO OBTAIN AN EXIT VISA.

RICHARD NEAMS
DDP

O'S BIOGRAPHY TO WORK IN RADIO FACTORY STATED THAT HE SERVED IN U.S. MARINE CORPS, SERVED IN JAPAN AND THE PHILIPPINES. ATTENDED MILITARY SCHOOLS CONCERNED WITH ELECTRONICS; SERVED AS RADAR OPERATOR WITH AN AVIATION UNIT.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

SECRET

11110755

THE NAMES OF SOVIET OFFICIALS ARE ILLEGIBLE

ON SOV. GOVT. DOCS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

SECRET 11110756

DOBRYNIN MATERIALS

TRANSLATIONS OF MATERIAL REC'D FROM SOV. EMB. WASH D.C. RELATIVE TO EMB. FILE ON LIO AND MARLINA

MARINA'S APPLICATION TO REGISTER RESIDENCE

PERMIT: LAST PLACE OF RES. IN USSR:

CITY OF MINSK, UL. KOMMUNISTICHESKAYA,
HOUSEY, APT. 25

LHO LETTER TO RUSSIAN EMB., WASH D.C.

ASKS FOR INFO ON HOW TO SUBSCRIBE TO "PROVA" OR "IAVESTIA" RUSSIAN LANGUAGE NEWSPAPERS OR SOME OTHER RUSSIAN LANGUAGE MAGAZINES SUCH AS "IGONYOK"

I WOULD LIKE FOR THE EMBASSY TO SEND US ANY PERIODICALS OR BULLETINS WHICH YOU MAY PUT OUT FOR THE BENEFIT OF YOUR CITIZENS LIVING, FOR A TIME IN THE USA.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

LLEGIBLE NAMES:

11110757

DOC. WHO EXAMINED LHO FOR FACTORY WORK
1/11/60

TRAINER AT FACTORY 1/11/60

APPLICATION FOR ISSUENCE OF ALIEN IDENTITY CARD,
INSPECTOR WHO REC'D APR & VERIFIED DOCS 1/4/62

APPLICATION FOR IDENTITY CARD FOR PERSON W/O
CITIZENSHIP 1/4/61, INSPECTOR WHO REC'D
APPLICATION & VERIFIED DOCS

APPLICATION FOR VISA FOR DEPARTURE FROM USSR (LHO)
7/16/61, EMPLOYEE WHO REC'D VERIFIED DOCS

APPLICATION FOR I.D. CARD FOR _________ 12/29/59
IDENTITY CARD, SERIES P NO. 311479 ISSUED ON
1/4/60 BY __________

CERTIFICATE THAT LHO IS EMPLOYED AS ASSEMBLER
IN RADIO PLANT, MINSK 1/1/60
ISSUED FOR PRESENTATION TO THE DEPT. M FOR ______
SIGNATURE __________

CERTIFICATE 7/19/61 THAT LHO LIVES AT NO. 4
KALININ ST., APT 24, CHIEF OF ZIKO ______

EMPLOYMENT RECORD BOOK, CHIEF ______

LETTER 7/9/62 FROM SOU. EMB. WASH. TO
MARINA

PLEASE SEND TO ILLEGIBLE YOUR RESIDENCE
FOR REGISTRATION.

AT THE SAME TIME PLEASE ILLEGIBLE NO. 118.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

BRADY
4/25/78

11110415

FILE:
*   ALL MATERIAL REC'D FROM AMBASSADOR DOBRYNIN RELATING TO OSWALD (SOV. GOVT. DOCS) 1964

MEMO FOR: J. LEE RANKIN
SUBJ: DOCS ON OSWALD FURNISHED BY SOV. GOVT.

c. THE INCLUSION OF MARINA'S VISA APPLICATION IS SINGULAR IN VIEW OF FACT THAT COM. AND NOT REQUESTED INFO ON MARINA. MOREOVER, THE DOC PURPORTING TO BE AN APPLICATION FOR AN EXIT VISA HARDLY QUALIFIES AS SUCH. WE KNOW FROM THE CASES OF OTHER SOV. CITIZENS

... THAT SUCH PERSONS ARE REQ'D TO PROVIDE CONSIDERABLY MORE INFO THAN WAS REFLECTED IN MARINA'S "APPLICATION". MOREOVER, IN INTERVIEWS MARINA REFERRED TO HAVING FILLED OUT THE NECESSARY FORMS AND O. NOTED IN HIS DIARY THAT ABOUT 20 DOLS WERE NEC TO OBTAIN AN EXIT VISA

RICHARD NEEMS
DDP

O. - BIOGRAPHY TO WORK IN RADIO FACTORY

SORTED THAT HE SERVED IN U.S. MARINE CORPS, SERVED IN JAPAN AND THE PHILIPPINES ATTENDED MILITARY SCHOOLS CONCERNED WITH ELECTRONICS; SERVED AS RADAR OPERATOR WITH AN AVIATION UNIT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

THE NAMES OF SOVIET OFFICIALS ARE ILLEGIBLE
ON SOV. GOVT. DOCS

11110416


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

DOBRYNIN MATEOULS

TRANSLATIONS OF MATERIAL RECIO FROM sov.
EMB. WASH D.C. RELATIVE TO EMB. FILE
LHO AND MARLINA

MARIINA'S APPLICATION TO REGISTER RESIDENCE
PERMIT: LAST PLACE OF RES. IN USSR:
CITY OF MINSK, UL. KOMMUNISTICHESKAYA,
HOUSEY, APT. 25

LHO LETTER TO RUSSIAN EMB., LASH. D.C.
ASKS FOR INFO ON HOW TO SUBSCRIBE TO
"PROVA" OR "IAVESTIA" RUSSIAN LANGUAGE
NEWSPAPERS OR SOME OTHER RUSSIAN LAN-
GUAGE MAGAZINES SUCH AS IGONYOK"

"I WOULD IKE FOR THE EMBASSY TO SEND US ANY
PERIODICALS IR BULLETINS WHICH MAI PUT OUT
FOR THE BENEFIT OF YOUR CITIZENS LIVING, FOR
A TIME, IN THE USA".

11110417


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

•LHO DOCS FROM DOBRYNIN
ILLEGIBLE NAMES:

11110413

1. DOC. WHO EXAMINED LHO FOR FACTORY WORK
   1/11/60

2. TRAINER AT FACTORY 1/11/60

3. APPLICATION FOR ISSUENCE OF ALIEN IDENTITY CARD,
   INSPECTOR WHO REC'D APP & VERIFISO DOCS 1/4/62

4. APPLICATION FOR IDENTITY CARD FOR PERSON W/O
   CITIZENSHIP 1/4/61, INSPECTOR WHO REC'D
   APPLICATION + VERIFIED DOCS

5. APPLICATION FOR VISA FOR DEPARTURE FROM USSR (LHO)
   7/16/61, EMPLOYEE WHO REC'D+ VERIFIED DOCS

6. APPLICATION FOR I.D. CARD FOR 12/29/59
   IDENTITY CARD, SERIES P NO. 311479 ISSUED ON
   1/4/60 BY

7. CERTIFICATE THAT LHO IS EMPLOYED AS ASSEMBLER
   IN RADIO PLANT, MINSK 1/1/60
   ISSUED FOR PRESENTATION TO THE DEPT. M FOR
   SIGNATURE

8. CERTIFICATE 7/19/61 THAT LHO LIVES AT NO. 4
   KALININ ST., APT 24, CHIEF OF ZAKO

9. EMPLOYMENT RECORD BOOK, CHIEF

10. LETTER 7/9/62 FROM SOV. SUB. WASH. TO MARINA

PLEASE SEND TO ILLEGIBLE YOUR RESIDENCE FOR REGISTRATION

AT THE SAME TIME PLEASE ILLEGIBLE NO. 118


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)