# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10306
RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

> [Figure: Text stating "Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 88326 Date: 2025"]

NW 88326
Docld:32243272 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date:08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10306

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 03/15/78

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BERK, CHARLES M.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Charles Michael Rerk                       | 12/31/78                                                                                                      |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                                                |
| 290-50-4529                                | ☐ Appointment                                                                                                 |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ☐ Salary Adjustment                                                                                           |
| Assassinations                             | ☐ Title Change                                                                                                |
|                                            | Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                                          |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business__________ Specify Date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff - ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res 256 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level__________ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date January 2 1979

LOUIS STOKES
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)
(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:__________ Chairman, Committee on House Administration

| Office of Finance use only:                      | ID                 |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------ |
| Office Code__________                            | Benefits__________ |
| Monthly Annuity $___________.00 as of __________ | Payroll__________  |

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee (Revised: August 1, 1977)
NW 88326
DocId:32243272 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                           |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Charles Michael Berk                       | March 15, 1978                                                                           |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                           |
| 290-50-4529                                | ☑ Appointment                                                                            |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ☐ Salary Adjustment                                                                      |
| Assassinations                             | ☐ Title Change                                                                           |
|                                            | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                   |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business__. |
|                                            | Specify Date                                                                             |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title    | Gross Annual Salary* |
| ----------------- | -------------------- |
| Senior Researcher | $18,000.00           |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff - ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number____________ If applicable, Level________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date March 15, 1978

(Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
CHAIRMAN
(Title-If Member, District and State)
(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code _________

Monthly Annuity $_________.00 as of _________

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

ID ___________

Benefits ___________

Payroll ___________
(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326
DocId:32243272 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: G. Robert Blakey

DATE: 15 March 1978

RE: Mr. Charles M. Berk



Please be advised that effective Tuesday, March 14, 1978,
Mr. Charles M. Berk has accepted the position of Research
Attorney with the Select Committee on Assassinations.

His effective starting salary will be $18,000.00.

If you have any questions concerning this matter,
please contact me at your convenience.

GRB:j

NW 88326
DocId:32243272 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Certificate of Relationship/Nonrelationship to Any Current Member of Congress

Date 03/14/78

To: Select Committee on Assassinations
(Employing Authority)

I certify that I do not have any of the following relationships to any current Member of Congress.

father nephew sister-in-law
mother niece stepfather
son husband stepmother
daughter wife stepson
brother father-in-law stepdaughter
sister mother-in-law stepbrother
uncle son-in-law stepsister
aunt daughter-in-law half-brother
first cousin brother-in-law half-sister

I certify that I am the _______________ of the _______________
(Relationship)

Honorable _______________
(Name of Member to whom related)

![signature]
Charles M. Berk
(Employee)

GPO 16-78695-3

3 15 78 PH 4:33
HOF R. FINANCE OFFICE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)