JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10107-10006

RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 012727

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: ATZENHOFFER, ANTHONY WILLIAM
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 10/16/1978
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: ATZENHOFFER, ANTHONY W. JR., STATEMENTS,
INTERVIEWS
FERRIE, DAVID
VOEBEL, ED
SHAW, CLAY
TULANE UNIVERSITY
OSWALD, LEE, PRE-RUSSIAN PERIOD, ASSOCIATES AND
RELATIVES

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/01/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Box 225.

Date: 10/2/201

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107
Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

v9.1
NW 88326 DocId:32261937 Page 1
1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Investigation Interview Schedule

Identifying Information

Name. Anthony William Atzenhoffer Jr.
740 Goodson Dr. Gretna, La.

D of B 4-20-39 Phone 504-393-6899
Soc Sec. 435-56-3420

Height 5'9"
Weight 175
Caucasian Green eyes brown hair

Employment. Tony's Aurora Gulf Service Station
4933 General Meyer Ave.
Algiers (new Orleans), La. 394-9189

Remarks. Remembers Lee Oswald's name on his roll call and
remembers him vaguely at Moisant meetings. Tony
was platoon Sgt. in Civil Air Patrol Cadets.

Investigator Robert Buras 10-16-78

NW 88326 Docld:32261937 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# KENNEDY

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE 10-16-78 TIME 3PM

I. Identifying Information:

Name Anthony William Atzenhoffer, Jr Telephone 504-393-6899

Address 740 Goodson Dr. New Orleans (Algiers), La.

Type of Contact: Telephone

X Person

II. Summary of Contact:

Investigator Robert Buras met Mr. Atzenhoffer at his service station and learned that he had joined the Civil Ari Patrol Cadets, Moisant Souadron in Sept. 1954 and left 1957. He was a platoon Sgt. and used to call the roll and remembered Oswald's name being on the roll. He has no recollection of ever training with him or speaking with him, and remembers him being a quiet guy. When he saw Oswald on TV in 1963 he didn't recognize him but on one of the newscasts he saw Ed Voebel talking about him (LHO). He remembered Voebel as the man that Oswald was close too and stayed with at the meetings. Atzenhoffer only knew Voebel from CAPC, not socially.

Ferrie did come to Moisant Squadron and teach some courses and Atzenhoffer took his first plane flight with Ferrie. He

III. Recommended Follow-up (if any): con't

None. He doesn't have any photos or records that might help.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Page two of interview with Anthony Atzenfoffer

never got to know Ferrie very well. He went to one social party that was given at either Ferrie's house or Col. Jim Salmon (James Salmon was killed in a plane accident 10-15-78). The party was all guys and when they started drinking he left. He was about 16 and his father didin't allow him to drink. Salmon and some others were seniors and Atzenhoffer didn't get to know them. He remembers that Ferrie flew at blue Stinson that he kept at Moisant Airport, (Now New Orleans International and they don't allow private planes there any more).

Ferrie never indicated that he was homosexual in any way. The only thing that he can remember that was not of CAPC was Ferrie wanting the kids to participate in some kind of experiment for Tulane University. They didn't do it.

Atzenhoffer was shown the photo book and related the following:

#5. Clay Shaw knew from newspapers.

#27. Looked familiar but name didn't mean anything.

#62. Melvin "Pinky" Seeling. Knew from either CAPC or other friends. He remembers that Seeling's father owned a large dairy farm in Kenner, La. Last saw him a few years ago. Seeling is in the Air Force and is stationed in Corpus Christi, Texas. Garrion's men showed him a mug shot of Seeling and he was suprised to learn that he had been arrested.

A check of New Orleans PD files indicate that he was arrested on August 30, 1961 and booked with Vagrancy, Investigation of Burglary and Hold for the F.B.I. under item number H-13903-61. His date of birth is given as 8-1-37. The report will have to be ordered from microfilm section.

* Subject not identified in photo book except by last name.

End Of memo


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)