# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10489
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 9
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC
2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10489

RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 06/01/77

PAGES: 11

SUBJECTS:

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
MORTON, CECELIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

Date: 08/20/93

Page:1

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# OFFICE OF THE CLERK
## U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
# PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
## 1977

MORTON, C.T.

Address

Address

Phone Number

Position Title

Position Number
Lavel
Step

DATE OF APPOINTMENT
6-1-77

ANNUAL LEAVE
CATEGORY
1.  0

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE
1.  5

Years Months
2.  0

BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR

Annual Sick
Leave Leave

ACCRUED
THIS MONTH
AVAILABLE
THIS MONTH
USED
THIS MONTH
BALANCE
AT CLOSE
OF MONTH
EMPLOYEE
INITIALS

| Month | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  | 13  | 14  | 15  | 16  | 17  | 18  | 19  | 20  | 21  | 22  | 23  | 24  | 25  | 26  | 27  | 28  | 29  | 30  | 31  | Annual Leave | Sick Leave | Annual Leave | Sick Leave | Annual Leave | Sick Leave | Annual Leave | Sick Leave |
| ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | ---------- | ------------ | ---------- | ------------ | ---------- | ------------ | ---------- |
| Jan.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| Feb.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| Mar.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| Apr.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| May   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| June  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              | /          | /            | 0          | 0            |            |              |            |
| July  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              | /          | /            | 1          | 1            |            |              |            |
| Aug.  |     |     | XX  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              | 2          | 2            |            |              | 2          | 2            |            |
| Sept. |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              | 0          | 2            |            |
| Oct.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| Nov.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| Dec.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |

Terminated 8/5/77

0.5 day annual leave

1.0 day annual leave

0.5 day sick leave

S or 1.0 day sick leave

A or 0.5 day administrative leave

A or 1.0 day administrative leave

U 0.5 day unauthorized absence

U or 1.0 day unauthorized absence

0.5 day leave without pay

1.0 day leave without pay

Employee's Signature Date
(If employee refuses to sign, state reason below)

Approved:

Chief's Signature Date

Clerk of the House Date

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

EXHIBIT I


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Cecelia T. Morton                 | 9/5/77                                               |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 578 66 0125                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Secretary      |                     |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 405 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b); prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 1 1977

Louis Stokes

Chairman

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) |                                                        |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Cecelia T. Morton                 |                                                        |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Effective Date                                         |
| 578-66-0125                       | 8/1/77                                                 |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Type of Action                                         |
| Assassinations                    | ☐ Appointment                                          |
|                                   | ☑ Salary Adjustment                                    |
|                                   | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Secretary      | 12,000              |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff - ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 2 1977

LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN
(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Cecelia T. Morton                 | 6/1/77                                               |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 578 66 0125                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     |                                                      |
| Assassinations                    | Salary Adjustment                                    |
|                                   | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Secretary      | $11,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1.  Standing Committee: Staff- Clerical or Professional.

2.  Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 31.10(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date June 1 19 77

Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CECELIA MORTON

REFERRED BY REP. JOHN BURTON.

CURRENTLY MAKING $10,400

WOULD COME AT SLIGHT

INCREASE - 10,500 - 11,000

I RECOMMEND HIRING HER

AS TYPIST.

![drawing of a calculator]

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth and Becky Martin

FROM: Steve Fallis

DATE: May 13, 1977

RE: Secretaries

1. Eileen Copeland has been hired as a secretary and will begin work on Monday, May 16, 1977. Her salary will be $11,000 per year and she will be temporarily assigned to the Legal Unit.

2. Nancy Schultz has been hired as a secretary, to begin work on Monday, May 23, 1977, at a salary of $12,000 per year. She is to be assigned to the Administrative Unit.

3. Cecilia Morton has been hired as a secretary and will begin work on June 1, 1977. Her salary will be $11,000 per year. She will be assigned to the Kennedy Unit.

The resumes for Ms. Copeland, Ms. Morton and Ms. Schultz accompany the copy of this memorandum to Becky Martin.

jg

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cous-in

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

☑ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

☐ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress. (Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

![Date]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. JOHN B. ANDERSON, ILL.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN. CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

MEMORANDUM

TO: Congressman Louis Stokes

FROM: Cecelia T. Morton

SUBJECT: Resignation

DATE: July 27, 1977

Please accept this as my resignation as of today's date to terminate August 5, 1977.

I am sorry for the short visit but I have been offered security and a more substantial job and better opportunities and wish to express my regret, for I have accepted this position.

I shall not forget the experience of working for the Committee and wish everyone the best of luck in trying to solve these cases.

Sincerely,

![signature of Cecelia Morton]

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# RESUME

Cecelia Morton

Cecelia T. Morton
1240 46th Street S.E.
Washington, D.C. 20019
(202) 575-2571

Date of Birth: 8-13-49

No. of Dependents: 1

Marital Status: Married

Employment Record

April 1972 - Present Rural Housing Alliance, 1346 Connecticut Ave.
N. W. Washington, D. C. 20036 (202) 659-1680
Immediate Supervisor: David Raphael
Title: Assistant Director
Position: Secretary
Reason for Leaving: Need new Challenges

Job Description:

Responsible for assisting Director in carrying out duties pertaining to fund-raising activities and special projects. Interviewing applicants for various secretarial positions. Responsible for review of items published in Federal Register. Prepare summaries of all rules and notices of regulations pertaining to rural issues. Responsible for maintenance of library, publications, and materials, periodic review of system of coding and filing. (Volume approximately 4,000 items)

Also served as Membership and Subscription Secretary which duties included: processing applications for members, day-to-day contact with mailing houses. Maintaining supply of materials for publications. Assisting with the organization of new publications, layout work.

At one time served as Information Director/ Research Secretary, some duties included: preparation and layout work for the monthly newsletter (RHA Reporter) for printers, making travel arrangements, coordinating all local and national newsclippings dealing with housing issues, responding to members inquiries. Typing press releases, speeches, statements, and other correspondence.

(more)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Cecelia Morton
-2-

## Employment Record (Cont'd)

September 1969 - April 1972 Riggs National Bank, 1510 H Street N.W., Washington, D. C. 20005 (202) 624-2630
Immediate Supervisor: Linda Porter
Position: Clerk-Typist
Reason for Leaving: Need for sufficient salary; better opportunities for advancement
Job Description: Transferring stocks and bonds, light bookkeeping, correcting computer print-out sheets and balancing companies records, answering phones, various mailing jobs.

Part-time high school -
September 1969 Chemical Bank, 277 Park Avenue, New York, New York
Immediate Supervisor: Ken Barrington
Title: Trust Officer
Position: Clerk-Typist
Reason for Leaving: Left city to move to Wash., D.C.
Job Description: Crediting checking accounts, issuing series E savings bonds, ordering check-books, typing loan contracts, receptionist duties, general office work.

## Education

Charles Evans Hughes High School, West 18th Street, New York, New York, graduated June 1967.

Armstrong Adult Education Night School, 1st & P Streets N.W. Washington D. C. Received certificate 1971 in keypunching..

## References

Mr. David Raphael, Asst. Director, Rural Housing Alliance, 1346 Connecticut Avenue N.W, Washington, D. C. 20036 (202) 659-1680

Ms. Mary Lansing, Admin. Ass't to Rep. John Burton, 1714 Longworth Bldg., Washington, D. C. (202) 225-5161

Mrs. Claire Earle, 9562 Landbreeze Row, Columbia, Md. (301) 596-6753


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

MEMO

To Mr. Hullon Date 5-6-77

Hello,

I really appreciate you taking time with me today. Enclosed is the verification. I hope to hear from you soon.

11 AM
WED 5/11
C.M.

Reply☐ Initial and return ☐ See me

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

JACK BROOKS, TEX., CHAIRMAN
ROBERT N. GIAIMO, CONN.
JAMES G. O'HARA, MICH.
JAMES C. CLEVELAND, N.H.
JOHN M. ASHBROOK, OHIO

# Congress of the United States

JOINT COMMITTEE ON CONGRESSIONAL OPERATIONS
OFFICE OF PLACEMENT AND OFFICE MANAGEMENT
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

LEE METCALF, MONT.,
VICE CHAIRMAN
MIKE GRAVEL, ALASKA
LAWTON CHILES, FLA.
JESSE A. HELMS, N.C.
PETE V. DOMENICI, N. ΜΕΧ.

![MAY 9 1977]

Date 5/6/77

Listed below is the result of a test administered by the Placement Office to Cecelia Morton on Friday, May 6, 1977, 1977.

Typing:

76 wpm on a 5-minute test

( 81 wpm with 5 errors)

![Anne Wilander]

Placement Officer

![Startry June 1, 1977]

NW 88326
DocId:32239497 Page 14


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)