# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System
### Identification Form
Date: 10/1/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10113-10119

RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 003362

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: ORR, PATRICIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 08/05/1977

PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS:

CIA

MEXICO CITY

HUNT, E. HOWARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: CIA 77-4. Box 77.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MEMORANDUM

8/5/77

TO: JH, KK

FROM: PMO

RE: CIA Station in Mexico City

Attached find a list of individuals known to have been connected with the CIA station in Mexico City during Lee Harvey Oswald's visit.

This information has been gleaned mainly from the executive session testimony of David Phillips, ex-CIA agent who had been in charge of Cuban Affairs for the CIA in Mexico City. Other information comes from staff interviews with a witness, Boris Tarasoff, formerly with the intercept unit of the CIA station.

It has been suggested that E. Howard Hunt may have been involved in CIA activities in Mexico City and specifically with the visit of Lee Harvey Oswald. Many critics cite the fact that the CIA Station Chief has never been identified publicly as a basis for speculation that Hunt possibly held that position. This, however, would, conflict with information from Phillips that the Station Chief was named Winston Scott, now deceased.

This does not preclude the possibility that Hunt held


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MEMO 8/5/77 pg. 2

SENSITIVE

another position at the station, but Tarasoff was shown photographs of E. Howard Hunt which he could not identify nor did he recognize the name from CIA-Mexico City.

I will also be forwarding an organizational chart of the CIA station as best I can make it out with the information known presently.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# MEXICO CITY -- CIA

A review of notes taken from interviews with David Phillips indicates that there are a several areas which our witness may be questioned about.

## Organization & Personnel
Personnel in Mexico City Station:

David Phillips:
In 1963 Phillips was in charge of Cuban affairs for the CIA in Mexico City. As such, he was responsible for the monitoring of the Cuban Embassy.

He was in Mexico City from September 1961 to early 1965, succeeding Tom Hazlett.

He originally comes from Ft. Worth and joined the CIA in 1950.

He recalls the Oswald tape as an intercept between the Soviet and Cuban embassies. Herbert Manel, head of Russian affairs at Mexico City Station would have been primarily responsible for information derived from this intercept.

Phillips was never in the intercept unit, which was staffed mainly by Mexican nationals.

His immediate superior was Warren Dean, but he answered to Winston Scott.

Winston Scott:
Station Chief for the Mexico City CIA Station in 1963. Supervisor for Phillips in practice, although the deputy Chief of Station would normally have been the person to whom Phillips was to report.

Scott was known for his almost photographic memory and a strong personality. He did not like to delegate authority.
Scott was the person who made final determination as to whether information coming in over an intercept was to be forwarded to Washington or not.

Scott is now deceased. He died of a heart attack around 1972. His name was not previously known publicly.

Warren Dean:
Deputy Station Chief under Scott in Mexico City. Phillips was not sure whether it was Dean or Allen White who held this office at the time of Oswald's visit, but he feels fairly positive that it was Dean.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEXICO CITY -- CIA

Dean (cont'd):
Phillips reported to Scott even though Dean was next man up the hierarchy.

Phillips believes he is retired and lives in the Washington area.

Allen White:
Succeeded Dean as Deputy Station Chief; Phillips worked under him for a time.

Phillips believes he is retired and resides in the Washington area.

Joe Picolo:
CIA officer under Phillips.

Robert Shaw:
CIA officer under Philips.

Eventually Shaw and Phillips had the "whole assignment" in Mexico City.

Two CIA operatives working inside the Cuban Embassy reported to Shaw. One worked for the administrative area; one worked in the diplomatic area.

Phillips believed Shaw is living in the Washington area and is still with the CIA.

George Monroe:
Phillips named him as the senior man in charge of the interception of telephone conversations of the Cuban Embassy's offices.

He would have been responsible for "dozen" or so involved in the intercept unit outside CIA headquarters.

Monroe came to the CIA from the FBI and had been with the CIA for 3 or 4 years at the time of the Oswald visit.

Phillips believes Monroe is still in Mexico today.

Ann Goodpasture:
Phillips mentions her as the person responsible for transporting the tapes from the intercept unit to CIA offices and back again.

It is unclear whether she brought back tapes or transcripts of the conversations from the Russian Embassy. It appears that she brought back transcripts


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

## MEXICO CITY -- CIA

Goodpasture (cont'd):
in Spanish, ie. translations were done at the intercept unit when the language was Spanish. The tapes that were in Russian were brought back to CIA head-quarters in all likelihood. (From Phillips' testimony, it appears that the Russian translator for the CIA was based in the Embassy where CIA headquarters were.) Goodpasture transported the tapes and transcripts in suitcases. She was notified if tape was interesting or not.

Phillips believes that Goodpasture is retired and residing in Dallas, Texas.

Raymond Swider:

Also assigned to Phillips, replacing Joe Picolo.

Phillips believed Swider presently works in the Washington headquarters of the CIA.

George Misco: (phonetic)

Although Phillips was somewhat shakey about facts with respect to Misco, he was able to tell us that Misco was the Russian translator for the CIA and that his office was most likely in CIA headquarters rather than the Soviet intercept unit outside.

Phillips claims that Misco was not in Mexico City at the time of Oswald's visit.

Herbert Manel:

CIA officer in charge of the assignment for Russian affairs, and as such was Phillips' counterpart at CIA station.

Manel worked with his wife, Babara, on this assignment.

Manel and his wife later worked with Phillips when they were all assigned to Caracas, Venezuela.

Phillips maintained that it would have been Manel's responsibility to decide where the inforation contained in the Oswald intercept was to go and whether the intercept should be kept for any reason. Win Scott, though, would have ultimate responsibility.

Phillips did no know of the Manel's whereabouts today.

Clark Anderson:

Local FBI agent in Mexico City, who would routinely receive petinent. information from the CIA.

His title was Legal Attache at the American Embassy. He is identified in the Church report only as "Legat" Since he was the highest ranking BI official in Mexico, the FBI investigation there was under his direction.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

                                    -4-                                                   **SENSITIVE**

MEXICO CITY -- CIA

Anderson (cont'd):
Anderson worked with Phillips in the Dominican
Republic in 1965.

He is presently retired and residing in San Antonio,
Texas.

Desmond Fitzgerald:
Chief of CIA operations in Washington CIA headquarters,
who originally recommended Phillips to the Mexico City job.

(Fitzgerald is mentioned in the Church report as
one of the CIA agents involved with plots against
Catro's life. The Church report names him as "the
senior CIA officer charged with responsibility for
Cuban affairs." He had a meeting with AMLASH on
October 29, 1963 for a policy discussion, informing
AMLASH that the U.S. was prepared to provide support
for a Cuban uprising only after a real coup had
been effected.)

Fitzgerald is now deceased.

Barabara Manel:
Wife of Herbert Manel; worked with him at Soviet
Affairs desk, assisting him in the work. She would
prepare the reports to headquarters, etc. and he
would sign them.

She had previously resigned from another staff
employee position at the CIA, but was hired again
on apart-time basis for her knowledge or Russian
and her experience in Soviet matters.

Benjamin Pepper:
Worked under Herbert Manel.

Concerned with other matters related to Soviet
affairs, such as Eastern European affairs.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

MEXICO CITY -- CIA

Personnel:

From other sources, namely, through information garnered by our own investigation, we are also aware of others involved with CIA Mexico City Station in 1963.

Mr. and Mrs. Boris Tarasoff:
As one of the CIA's husband-and-wife teams, the Tarasoff's, had the job of translating and transcribing conversations in the Russian language going in and out of the Soviet Embassy by telephone.

They were experts in voice identification using such aids as newspaper clippings and other miscellaneous informations about different individuals to help determine geographic origins, etc. about persons whose conversations were being tapped.

The Tarasoffs were directly involed in the translation and transcription of the Oswald conversation, although the specifics have become dim in Mr. Tarasoff's memory.

Tarasoff succeeded George Misko.

Tarasoff was never questioned by any investigative agency about the Oswald conversations.

Boris Tarasoff thought the conversation was most likely between Kanstaninov and Oswald and did not involve Kostikov or Yatskov. Tarasoff knew no one by the name of Kostin.

Tarasoff presently resides in Guadalajara, Mexico.

William Bright:
Identified by Tarasoff as CIA "contact" between the station and the translators. It is not clear whether Tarasoff was in the station or in a separate intercepting unit, but it appears that he was probably outside the station.

Bright seemed especially interested when the second call between Oswald and the Soviet Embassy was intercepted and Oswald identified.

Robert Zambernardi:
Identified by Tarasoff as the photographic expert at the Mexico City station at least from September 1963 to November 1963.

Charles Flick:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

ORR 8/5/77

MEXICO CITY -- CIA

ORGANIZATION

The CIA Station was housed at the U.S. Embassy. We have been able to identify several CIA positions from various descriptions. May I suggest the following skeletal framework as a possible picture of the CIA's organizational chart for September-October 1963.

WASHINGTON

CHIEF OF OPERATIONS
SPECIAL AFFAIRS
(Desmond Fitzgerald)

MEXICO

AMERICAN EMBASSY

STATION CHIEF
(Winston Scott)

Overall responsibility
for CIA activities in
Mexico.

- AMBASSADOR

- LEGAL ATTACHE
  (Clark Anderson) FBI
  "Legat"

DEPUTY
STATION CHIEF
(Warren Dean,
later Allen White)

Joe: Picólo - assisted
Phillips; replaced
by Ray Swider
Robert Shaw oversaw
Cuban operatives

CUBAN AFFAIRS
(David Phillips)

REPORTS OFFICER
&
ASSISTANT

RUSSIAN AFFAIRS
(Herbert Manel)

Barabara Manel - Soviet
affairs; assists H. Manel
Benjamin Pepper - Eastern
European affairs

CUBAN EMBASSY

2 CIA operatives: one
in the diplomatic section,
one in the administrative
section.

CONTACT

Ann Goodpasture

INTERCEPT UNIT
(George Monroe)

CONTACT

Bill Bright

Robert Zambernardi
(photo expert)

Boris Tarasoff
Mrs. Tarasoff

George Misko (before 10/63)

(Russian translations, transcriptions)

![page 9 NW 50955 DocId:32264993]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)