JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 9/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10076-10105

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 008269[PT.11]

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NEW ORLEANS DISTRICT ATTORNEY

FROM: LOISEL, LYNN

TO: IVON, LOUIS

TITLE:

DATE: 01/11/1967

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: FERRIE, DAVID

LEADS AND INFORMATION

JOHNSON, JIMMY

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/04/1996

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Box 151.

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88326 Date: 2025

v9.1
NW 88326 Docld:32247047 Page 1

1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# MEMORANDUM

January 11, 1967

TO: LOUIS IVON, INVESTIGATOR

FROM: LYNN LOISEL, INVESTIGATOR

RE: PHONE CALL FROM JIMMY JOHNSON REGARDING FERRIE AND THE SMITH CASE (January 10, 1967, 4:00 P. M.)

It is to be noted that Jimmy Johnson who was once a close associate of Ferrie, but broke free from Ferrie but as a favor for this office, renewed his friendship with Ferrie for information purposes for this office.

Jimmy stated that Ferrie had contacted Pershing the other day in regards to the Cuban woman's name that was mentioned in the Saturday Evening Post article.

That Ferrie had called a Lawyer (neme unknown) last night which would be January 9, 1967, and upoke with the Lawyer about his being investigated by this office. Details of conversation unknown.

Ferrie has a lot of old army paraphernalia in his apartment, such as, walkie talkies, incendiary bombs, etc.

Ferrie was showing nude pictures (moving films) to two young boys and a district police car shined a light on his front porch and he really became frightened and uncontrollable, telling Jimmy that the police must onspect him.

Jimmy stated that one Steve Littleton parked a twin-engine beachcraft in Ferris's spot at the airport, and that their plane was flown in from out-of-town. It is at Ferrie's disposal. He also heard Ferrie and Littleton tlking about a little island somewhere and they were interested in knowing if they could land the beachcraft on this island.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

-2-

Jimmy feels that they may have taken a smaller airplane ane and flew to this island today to look at a possible landing spot.

End of Communication

LYNN LOISEL

LL/bb

NW 88326 Docld:32247047 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)