# Back Ground

SECRET

In April 1986, the Senate
Select Committee to Study Government Operations
With Respect to Intelligence Activities
(SSC) published their Final Report (Part II)
which in essence faulted the CIA
and to some self for its errors of
mission in not informing the
Warren Commission of the Agency's
ongoing plots against the revolutionary
government in Cuba and its personal
attempts on the life of its premier,
Fidel Castro. The Committee's estimate
is detailed on pages 6-7 of its findings
but one paragraph succinctly
sums up their position:

"Senior CIA officials also should
have realised that their agency was
not utilizing its full capability
to investigate Oswald's pro-Castro
and anti-Castro connections. They
should realised that CIA operations
against Cuba, particularly operations
involving the assassination of
Castro, needed to be considered in the
investigation. Yet, they directed their
subordinates to conduct an inquiry
for without telling them of these
vital facts. These officials, whom the
Warren Commission relied upon for
expertise, addressed the Warren
Commission that the CIA had no

THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECHE

dence of a foreign conspiracy?

Stung by the Senate criticism and the "rippling effect" that Bockround in the media the CIA prepared a comprehensive report in 1977 designed to an at least within the Agency, the critical questions posited in the SSC Final Report. Severely even the 1977 CIA's Report accognizin the medigun of the three & the Waren Immin's finest for all relevant information. ["Relevancy" is of course,
the "bugwood" upon which both the Senate and Agency base their position of the importance of the anti-Castro plots to the emunis work. J. On page 10 of the Agency's Chis, the 1977 Report acknowledged that 4, el "While one can understand to day why the Warren Imited its inquiry to malvers of in vestigation, it would have served to win force the credibility of its effort if had it taken a broader view of the matter. CIA, for could have considered in spucles sume what most saw in general fume... the possibility of soviet or ten involvement because of tension in of the term. The Agency should have


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

P10
Regent
taken broader initiatives, stnd, as well."

It is not the purpose of this analysis to detail and the confusing view points of the SSC and CPA with regard to the significance of the CIA's Castro assassination attempts and to resolve the controversy as to the operations importance. Rather I marked this paper seeks to present a comprehensive review of all the facts, drawn from a variety of sources, of organized crimes of involvement or potential involvement in CIA operations against Cuba during 1960-63.

Certain influences and conclusions will then be drawn upon the nature, scope, and motivation of the syndicate participants in the operation.

0002180

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Prvolvement of Dagonist mince in
C+A Plots to F
SECRET

the genesis of the utiligation of the
Urusted States cumundd. Synd & the trage!
to anassinate Castro

Insectenus depert as occшшу
1947 107.

during a compusation between the
Depicts Ductor of Rich
Bissell, and the Dist of the office of
Sicuty, Colonel sheffull Fowarde +
1947 It Rate ...
• Intum Ppt p 74'Isernooi J
Edwards assiged the specific faste.
of locating the right put puut to
ninator Mars restro, to
James" Big Jem", "Conell, wees was
The Clef of The Sun Support Devi
Both men of the office Ad
agreed that Robert A. Mahu who
for had been punish filliged
ly the Aspyin sebud seliteve ever
gerbrone, would be emphated to
Precruite operama,
cructo the nieuwny pusonnel,
+ Mahei's CIA hestury and tenship to mell
  are detailed on op 74-75, Intum Report].
  Although mehenaid 'chinell defer
  00021to who intedly hought up
  Jom Rosellis name for consistenten
  Thul was a meeting musing bethren Makin
  and Pessilli at the pron Dully untu
  in Los Argilla ent saly Septemba 1908
  I Datum Pepti 25-3
  SECRET

[ommenti Maher seen's the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

logical person to have thought
of and contacted Roselli for severd
easons. In an office of Serif file
m Ed Magan, mahuis aftong, there
is a mimo to the DCD dated
19 Novente 1970 swhich uviens the
mafia operation. Paragraph 5 statto
thar" Mr. Mahun advised that he
had met one fon Roselli on
Join
serud accssons whill vesty tes
Seas. He my mern him Choually
through other chints, but was
quotes given for unanstand that he was
a high ranking minder of the
syndicate and controlled ill the
mahing madurice on the Stup!
Maher redsond chat, if Roselli
war in fact a mention mentor of the Clon
be rundoubtedly pod Emnetime
Ire modume,
leading into the cuban gamby
in fults.

0002182

Comment

Confirmation of realist
Mahen-Reselli Entent is found
in Dells FBI fill and emisits &
an allesh lesson call in 1959. Sec Rosselh
from Mahu to Rerselli
wribup

Comment

Mahace and Roseli led mutual contro
dat pas seger por 1950 y
Han't runssum, editor of the Jage
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

0002183

Rosselli, although apparently skeptical at first, agreed to a meeting in New York City with Maheu and counsel to discuss further details.

L Interim Report p76; Office of Security memo from Morgan file, dated 19 Nov. 1975.

Although the Project Bonita report places the meeting at the Playa Hilton on 14 September 1960, Rosselli recalled that the discussion took place during Castro's visit to the United Nations which began on September 18, 1960.

Comment:

Tony de Varona admits going to NYC at the time of Castro's visit, but it is unlikely that he was in contact with Rosselli at this time or L. Feruary of de Varona, that his visit had an assassination motivation

According to a 19 Nov. 1970 memo to the DCF, it was at this September meeting in New York City, that Rosselli "agreed to introduce him (Maheu) to a friend, "Sam Gold," who knew the Cuban crowd?

Comment:

The timing of the introduction of both Giancana (*Gold*) and Trafficante (*"Joe"*) is an important to the analysis of the "true" role of the mob in the Castro assassination plots. [illegible]

p.3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

to the 1967 I.G. Report re the eutron
of Giancana took place during the
week of 25 September 1960...

[ 1967 I.G. Report, p18 ]

In contrast, the SSC Interim
Report at p. 76, it was
stated Saturn for Giancana
*did not indicate* a mistral
(taking prior to October
18, (p701)) because of completing
stay evidence returned the
1167 Jab. September date and various matheus.
Sentimon
testimony, which set the inferts
in November 1960, is a compromise, the
Interim twin Report reasoned that Giancana
had part introduced to the Mahan
" prior to October 18," that
Las Vegas wiretap account macheter
30, 1960, and (2) DDP Birsel's had
record an fact memo dated 18 Oct
1960 which revealed an FRF FLSUR
quarry Giancana at disutility, has
recorded a memo went in an augas
assassination
plot of agent castro FHD mino,dutt
18 Oct 1960 farm It Bissell, Inteum
Report, p 705

Comment:

0002184

Lord dual reasons listed on the
Interim Report on p 77 de subject to
critical analyses which will be
dealt with separately at the belong

Comment:

Although the 1967 I.G. Report stated


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

that "Mahin pointed out *bold*" to O'Connell from a distance but O'Connell never met either "Gold" or Joe", the Interim Report disputes this observation by apparently quoting from O'Connell's Senate testimony and stating that "the Support Chief, who was using the name *form Ills*, said he had met *Sam and Joe*, once, and then only briefly. 20.C. 5/30/75, pp 26-29, Fortune Report?.

0002186

Conflicts appear also on several Maine minor points surrounding the September 1968 meeting in N.Y.C. and Miami. For instance:

1.  Did Rosselli know from the beginning that the operation was CIA?

    a) O'Connell stated that Mahin told Rosselli that they were representing international business interests, whereas Rosselli testified that Mahin told him that O'Connell was CIA (Interim Report, p.76 indicates that Rosselli told O'Connell "about 3 weeks after the New York meeting," which is during the Miami involvement of Faraona, that "I am not kidding. I know what you work for."

The importance of Rosselli's recognition of CIA is that it is doubtful if pronounced and perspicuous.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

0002187

SECRET

could have been enlisted untur
they could be sure of goverment
protection this theme will be
developed more fulf below.

a) Roselli Bld nis cubern comtan.
that he was an "agent of some
summer inntents of Wall Spect that
had nichel Enfuests and properties
Mound Cuba (Rosellii4/24/25
pop. 9117

Of Jach Andean column
of Jan 17,1971, which stalled
that could the plot aganct
Castro have bradsfiet egent Bunten
Kennedy?

Nore "None of the NASSONS.
teams, however, had ducit eumrate
of the CIA involvement. The CFA instigat
had represented themselves asortmen
stehing revenge againt Contro
for his sugure of of bil holdings

If for

1.  Tef Indusen's source for this
    aiteell were Rensell and Willian
    Hairy, who was not jury to the Actas
    of These I, it is another

wist
=
serioies discrepan

OM CIA, Senatt, and Andicon Musionis
which all purport to defend, in you
degrees upon, Raselli.

(3) the alleged to surin
discerny" y mahen nd & 'coined
as to the entities of
"Sam bold" "and foe is realf
Suspect. Fust, altra fes


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

0002188
SECRET
possible that the senate committee
Staff overlooked the Miami newspaper

Sunday supplement (Raiders which purposely
included pictures of Mancina
gradually and transparent they ar
showing Maher and O'Connell to the
nature of the people with whom
they week dealing, it is a relatively
lazy matter to research Paided
magazine for the months of October
and November. It would appear
that O'Connell and Michen
were working for an ex post
facto reason for captening
the operation after the introduction
of two of the top mafiosi in the
United States. O'Connell testified that
his discovery was after "we
were up to our ears in it" which
is difficult to fathom since the operation
was in the sorryone stage and no
pills pills pure few deleted to conelli Hal
until approximately March 1961, the
reasen, the Senate staff inscrits it could not find the Pared article.

The operation despite in deceff
disagree
to the colls which would
be played by both "Gold" and for
in the pre-Bay of Pigs
phase of the operation.
Although Maher described
froncona as playing a "key" role


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

0002189 M, 7/29/75, p.34) and ureussed his job as "to locato omeone in cartun entourge new could accomplish the montern", Reselle down played conconar port to that of a balle up Man & Reale

6/24/75/p15) All of the widenedeste po Ibitter Rosselli recundi munge from broncenis murder four days before Rossellis Senate appearне is open for question J. Russelli Senitt characteign of biarias vole as meritten mrast to inally one "himletje of the cubren wind" wed
The 19 Nov 1970 mimounded.

Trafficantels in folvement in Phase I in ever more pundled by the available evidne. The 1947 Tabe Report al Sendtt Intum Report stats that a "bold" sten fified "Joe" to Mahen as a man wers would sure as a courier to Cuba and mahe anergements there

p19) Interim Report, p.775. To support the desception of Trappsonte as courier the agent Inturm Report quitto p. 19 of the 1907 Fit Report in statuny that "At that time, the gambly casinis were still operating in Cusa and Trafficante wells mehry regular Juwen fupe n and Huranna rannat sindicats funnen

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

0002190 Comment partially
This unsupported assertion
runs contrary to the evidence
avail Ihrough official government
records. As an example, State Department
of other agencies
notes reflect that Traffcante applied
for a passport on October, 1, 1959
and received that document in
Havana on February ?, 1960.
(See Traffcante file, State Dept).
No records available to the
Committee from INS, State Department,
or FBI record any later 1960
pavede even though the Bureau
maintained decent surveillance
on Trafficante during the period. In
his Committee testimony, Trafficante
recalled that he made trips
to Cuba after his release from
prison in August 1959 and
placed these sojourns within
two or three months of the his
Allattery, pp 4-53, Oct 1978
His testimony has
failed in that all of the casinos
in Havana were either closed or operating in the
mid-1960, and law enforcement
reports placed him in the Tampa-
Miami area consistently
during the pre-Bay of Pigs period.

By the time of the Senate
testimony of Robert Kennedy, Trafficante's
role had diminished to a point


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

0002101 Leven been Giancana, who
had been reduced to a
mere "translator" and was
needed only to facilitate contact
between Roselli and the cubans
who had been recruited for
the actual assassination attempt
Trafficantes and Roselli, 1975
and 1977 impressed apparent
dovetail well but remain in
contradiction to the facts
they were being reported in 1983 of the prequates.

Comments

The Senate testimony of
Rosselli and Trafficante needs to
be outlined with a
view to contrasting the "courier
in interpreter" role. My memory is
that the Senate did not our
examine either man on
this discrepancy nor did they
In The Deport hinta at
the problem.

Once the latter had been
assembled for the launching of
the enterprise, a discussion began
as to the method to be
enced to complete the gest, the
Agency, from the simplist, strught
not appse of shortening Castro
the waw


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

ly Bimcana. In a cmiment to its 1967 Report, the Inspector Genual noted that "Bimcana was flatly opposed to the use of firedims. He said that no one could be verrided to do the jour because the chance of survival and escape would be negligeable. Bimcana stated a refusuce for lethal fill that Euld be put into Castros ford and junk... (Caffranto & Gole; the corner) was in touch with a dingtwan feat with accus. Castro lack presume of a sort that would enable here to surrepticiously poison Castro. The gangsfus named their man Oinside is Juan Orta, who was then office chif and Dructer Comed of the office of the prime munster. Castro the gangstue said that Onta had once fren in a postim to ricum mechtache füm the gomly musts but had suice lost that source of meine and nuded the mony. [LF-G Royut, p25]

Comment
--jured above
The observatinier of the 1967 FO... Report are an extremely signifi pileval in several respects. Furth the poison with Bimcana, not the Agency; a point


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET
0002193 which is cinced is the final
conclusion presented below.
Secondly, Trafficano is identified
as having access to and
providing the assassin in Cuba
which is consistent which
he self-saving note deception
of "in the piller!!" His ability to
recruit Enfa apparent he was
directly tied to his of former
gambling empire associations
which formed a constant pattern
for all his illegality conduct for Trafficanto both
during and after his cuban days
I see Trafficanto profile. 3.

Comment

Note Speculation concerning Infas
role during the Agency? 1977
Report when it was forced to
address a problem raised by
an April 23, 1975 article, concerning
Frank Stugis, written by Paul
Merrill of the New York Daily News.
"Stugis was quoted as saying,
"The third (Crossroads of History)
involved planting a bomb in Castros
office. I had access to the Dome
security office, Stugis said," I knew
Fidels private security, from data.
I recruited him to work with the
Embassy, or American Embassy in Panama
What
has. definitely is the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

writus of the 1977 Report was the
fact that Enta's name hal
surfaced in cinecfun witte
before revelation of M CHA-
relay
Maid connecten the the Senate
committee the Report
quences nens stories Anbiy
3 Hungis wat Treppicants and
with a "gamos partner of
Traficantes Normer Rockmen
a Castro ainassuta plot,
Coupled with
ups, The
es
allegation that stages had a
roll note in
( Ros
Stygis not relationship
insleting
gamos casines in Cuba on
the Cash
geriment out
could have devilled on whit
within at in retry gamby

A second aspect of Miskils
nens seves embered a daein
of Mauta Joveng that she had
in atenoty
afempty s poison
prie
ley Stanges in 1965
poison Castro.
dove failed with the 1900 1900
with
FBD, memorandum of Dimcoccas
elletronicas omrulld curumen
in wach the stated that " the
arsann and ansreged with a
girl, not further descubd, to
drapa pell some dink or or ford
of
Cesto DOISTA DORMIR
C


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

??

the tentative childrens address
0002195 M the 1977 Report are as follows

pat It is obvious that many lines of speculation can be derived, nos qu did
Ceast of which is that the Agency did not burn the full went of Additional considerations;

1. Cummail syndicate may well have some independent actus...
   some in inducers on of
   Spurs prior A CIA mourned in late 1980. Rho CPA actor on in 1902. Mul
2. Syndicate operator could have been but artists such as them in New York Daily
   Nima Sturgis (1975 and 1976;
3. Frank Sturgis seems to have had contact with but not a member of syndicate. Could well have been usedly the syntech.

24. Sturgis has not been a while mun.
    He probaf men oath in Cuba but he was indeed Cuber pur Gitte veneers roll of massin.

If there was an caller operator wi orta it was not CARS i could have been eacher operator of sepudian. Stugis could have sum of fem involved in syndicate opulen, or gitted fm gossip in 1905 opun


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

000002197 Neither the 1967 IG Report or the SSC Interim Report can pinpoint the precise date on which the Agency procured the poison pills. White emell referred to as Futum Report, pros. The chain of custody, according to the 1967 I-G-Report hes wes for the lethal pills ils to be delivered form Rosselli to Traffante. Although the nut in tarnshing steps remain missing, Rosselli reported to Comedi that the pills had been delivered to Cuba in late Febry-may, March 1961 & Interim Rpt, p. 27; Futurn Rpt p 88

Comment:
The Senate Interim Report reported the version of Joe Shimon that whose wing was that the mency and pills for the operation was delivered at a meeting at the Friedanen Hotel on March 12, 1961, atterid of Mahen, Rusli, Traffante, and the Cuban & Interim st pers. Shimon's stry is filled with detailed duccimints

4/17
p52 of the Pent, but his credibility is suspect & I sureics question as arencentra oft shared and anyone ibre immusled with the plan and nor is his relatenstep with


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

0002198 Rosselli, broncana, or Trafficanto, "cowy as he would
appear, lead one & blive

It is the app that shimon...
was a source for pudr Ancol
of Jury 18, 1961, which freed the
Lato and huss.
Passage pien
Rerselli
the Fourfanbleat as Mach 13, 19611
and contened the uport that costro brume
ill a fenty welles later.
the real groote puth Shinews.
stay is that the file wue
Itumed to the hot for a

Len make because Gota could
Arta or would not attmpt the
poirming a fact apparente
untninn to shimon befire
his laula "to Anidem aed ais

Senato es fi maup

Comment

One additions fart fall omamy
Orta's in ability to dry aut the
mirsim ties in with the final resis
of this report, Orta lust his
positim in Castros office
20 Jan 1961, will the play for
the operation was still goily.

Trané and deskyin!

It would seem though, that to
gvery the gonactus did anom that orta bad
Carides loot this accre to Castro

2 July 1961- Report p. 27 J


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECREL

0002199. With the failure of Onta to produce the desired results,

atio project was at a standsted until, once again, Santo Trafficante resumed command. Roselli believed that "Trafficante believed a certain leading figure in the Cuban exile movement might be able to accomplish the assassination".
Σ Forde 1967 Do, ept, p. 29, Dulen Rpt p80.

Comment:
The will leader was, of course, Tony de Varona,
who was the subject of speculation in an FBI memorandum of 18 Jan, 1961 allegedly him with receiving, aid from American gangsters for anti-Castro activities while in the CIA operation.

If you find of his introduction into the CIA- not plots, he now was already perry funded of the Agency through the Revolutionary Front and was directly involved in CIA planning for the Boy of Pigs invasion which was imminent.

in 1960-61 Intent in Varona was also discussed by Mike Mekaskey whose activities were secretly engaged on rumors using Varona's image in collaboration with McRaney's Front.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

00022curve or "chille" Mendogandga is described in Traficante's files
is a close cuban associates
Completing the profure of
support for Varna is the premaknu
efforts of the Dind and Eddie Cellini, muchay and Lundy Pusenicu
anccettia, who may reportedly
wortory through a Wasbryten dc,
public relations firm, Edward
& moss and Associates. Mas had
meras CPA associations and
was supposed acting as a capur
Supplied for benefits with the underfondr
that this gray would have
"puvided Jutment in the
Cubre of the fu Jupore. Afferents
to relify rtekes ports were
unsuccin ful in 1967 Pute Rent
P30 J

The Daisy in fleure
using the callini bothue
"front" is paeteurul turry
in light let of Varonar adnum
that Jorge Puyol Monged a
metry in many in asa
1160 wherein many isly offered 18
financially "Jack" Vauner efforts
mucer gruple watt canto,
which may be a euphemoon for
witt-Castro plots- & Sec Varna tuuspat


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# JLUNES

The logical inference to be drawn is that both the Agency and engaged crime; and other persons interested in removing the Castro regime had settled upon de Varona, who had the potential of uniting the vast multitude of white groups who move in a confirmed internecine feud. de Varona was understandably pleased to permit both the U.S. government and criminal syndicate to offer him support and asked no questions as to the source of the funds or the motives of his benefactors

Eser Varona testimony - Specific

Although de Varona has no memory of meeting Traffacante, he thinks some have advised that he acted as an "interlocutor" in several meetings attended of di Varona, Rosselli, Bemonia, and other exiles. These meetings were arranged by Rafael "Macho" Hener, a Trafficante gaming partner from Havana who continued to assist Trafficante in Miami during the 1960s. Trafficante claimed that Rosselli had previously met with Hener but this account conflicted in view of Trafficante

Long-stunts relationship with our on Cuba and Asiatic Admin B


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SEUNLE

O'Connell that Treffiantes would provide the replacement
for the ill-fated Juan Orta
who had emerged to the Venequelan Embassy in April 1961.

Comment: Parallelling the situation at
the Senate hearing May 1975 when
Roselli's discription of Traffiantes role
changed from his role
in 1960-61 as reported by
The Agency to conform to Traffiantes
"interpreter" statement, is the intent inference
with bener who agrees with the
"Traffiantes" committee testimony. Fairly dynamic.
He was an intimidate informanding with the
Roselli. The not undit in both
instances is to minimize Traffiantes
appears (CF. Fouji interview
with Gener, May? 1978 and Traffiantt
testimony, Oct 7, 1972.)

However, the meeting with
caused ambiguity
ambiguity exists as to the
Genesis of the introduction of de Varna into phase
One of the Castro assassination plots, more
clearly implying confusion, surrender
de Varmas prior actual participator
prior to the Bay of Pigs invasion.
I & Report indicates that de Varna
attempted a second poison rumor
before the Cuban invasion that
Roselli was positive that my one


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET
0002203 attempt, (Ortas) was made. He
was also positive that he
delivered both pills, money
and supplies to de aina pwedes
corroborated by O'Connell
during 1961, the conflict is rendered
by the senate in speculatory
"that only one pre-Bay of Pigs attempt
was made, and that de varona was
the contact in the United States who
arranged for... Cortas... to administer
the poison.

Comment
There appears to be no further
way to resolve de varona's initial
contribution to the poison attempts
especially since Varona denies ever
having received poison pills
from Resselli or any involved in
any attempt on Castros life at any form

Comment
The Agency was aware of
the possible dangers inherent
in having de Varona participate
in the modus plots while in custody
and put on the Resumption Panel.
However, "Steps taken to end his
participation in the syndicate from
but Libyl move against
I.G. Report, p 3/25

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

0002204 Phase II

The debacle which marked the mid-April 1961 Bay of Pigs effort, curtailed CIA efforts with the most to assassinate Castro led. It was not until, April 1962, when Bill Harvey assumed Agency responsibility for the task, were efforts made to re-establish contact with Roselli. However, the fact that the Agency was squeamish during the Bay of Pigs aftermath to continue to try to kill Castro, does not mean that the mob shared their shyness. Indeed, both Harvey and O'Connell swore that Harvey "foth over a going operation? I. IG. Rept p. 33.

the exact details of what yhar operation might have been cannot be has not been uncovered, but Rosselli's ability to u generate this former prке in response to Harvey's contact in April 1962.

was in mediate- Once again the rubiquitous de Umта мом was to provide the who would carry the lethal poison into cuba

However, there were some significant difference between Phase One and Phase Two of the operation which bear upon the ultimate question of the mob's motivation and


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

0002205

services in carrying out their
part of the bargain struck in 1960
with the Agency.

Fact: In Phase One, Rosselli *et al*
had demonstrated their ability to execute
the contract on Castro by naming their
source who was, in fact, in a
position close to Castro to succeed.
In contrast, the details of the *modus
operandi* and the ability of the clandestine
assassins was deliberately vague.
After Harvey initially met with Rosselli in
Miami in April 1962, Harvey reported that
"the manner in which the lethal
material was to be introduced into Castro's
food [which involved] an act of sabotage
who had access to communist
restaurant frequented by Castro."
By
June, 1962 after the Vienna had
received money and instructions from
the JMWAVE station and had presumably
sent the pills into Cuba, the "Rosselli
reported to Harvey on 21 June that the men
had dispatched a team of three men
to Cuba. Just what they were supposed
to do is pretty vague. Harvey said that
they appeared to have no specified plan for
killing Castro. They were to await further
word which might be used in such a scheme.
If an opportunity to kill Castro presents
itself, they or the persons they recruited
will to make the attempt -- *Cuban*
using the pills. Harvey never found


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

work for Pearson and did breme
prat Andusen had more then a
Bassing acquaintance with Magari
- Magari also fight with
- Clyne of N
  Pat

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

0002206
SECRET

their names or nythy about them"
L 1967 D.G. Report p513.

Comment

As the 1967 ID author corresly
observed, Harvey fall of the
"favorite restaurant" possibly comforting
over the fact that 4.5 Howard
was familiar in that Fawads
had described precisely the same
plan", the fact that Varona
related the last mother operand
to Harvey as he had discussed
with B. Edwards in Phase One
(circa 1960-mi61961) leads to the
possibilities that:

(1) Harry was conected in amung
that he was takery over an
ongoing operaton in April/142 or
(2) the most had been unnay
d. Varona before, during and after
the Bay of Pigs and permitted the
CDA to provide logistical support
and future profectum against the
Gruster Department; or

(3) di Varma was simply making
up a story for the Agency to
gain thur financial funding or in
response to directives from
negpnigd crime

Second
SECRET
the cart. of unde wild


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

0002207

SECRET

chamactus changed. Harry had
insisted that Maher and Demcana
be dropped fun the operator
waith Roselli ready to
Trafferantes "in fuprafcote" wan
arrnemed y "Marco a mpturion
"Cuban who spoke Italian" aid alro
sometimes used the names barrosony
and ooday.

Comment

"Marcos" in fire for inte one
off the most sensitive CIA covert
actions in history.
attempt his background
or to asentain this identity is
extrandinary. Yet, the Agency apparently
went blithely to bed
with face of the top woodburns in the UNEL
States without doing any basic
background scoots investiga
Although the 1967-68 Report character
Marco an "Rosselli's man!" It is
probable that this endevind was

draffet by Treferentes who
had provided all the Cuban qusornn
certainly used in the attempts and
were still possessed, in 1962, the
most complete network of caban
allies in mumi and cuta.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

2.  immigration of the CDA-

Rosselle, in May 1964, posted and fun delivered to fures in spul had suves in Cuba, and an unientifus three-man team had been nafia was plots slood and undramafio

March Copos sumiration of

3. Hary in June to fernto the plan Infern Reput P845

Drury September 1902, Roselli readying a sicent the man team who were" supposed militia men wluse assignment was to generato dore arstige puls

4. tres body guard Duntry this ques the medicine was reported is still on place and the three men of the funt team safe L1907 IG, Report, Pors

5. Hoverno, the second team never made cuba and a sevis if alibis were constructed dury Decembe as suppose for the maintanence.

6. Jamy, 1943. Nervertheles, af varma of these in divenith fione Rossille. whs that record the payment for Hary. 1967. Report p52

syppises

7. In mid guy 1903 botto Buy and perselli aqued that "potberg was happening and what there was not much chance that prythry would happen on the future" Lion for Roo in Roselli was in stunded to ease his way out of touch with The LATH did. last merkry betroen he


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

and Rosselli occund in Washington D.C. on June 1963. when he was having to overnight guest. However their meeting ostensibly was not during related to any assassination plots.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET

CONCLUSION

0002210

The available evidence suggests that the thesis which in part, is tacitly assumed by the Agency in its 1977 internal Drispiate berivals Report wherein it states that, "It is possible that CIA simply found itself involved in providing additional resources for independent operations that the syndicate already had under way..." In a sense, CIA may have been piggy-backing on the syndicate and, in addition to material contributions, was also supplying an aura of official sanction? L 1977 PG Rpt 2105

The relevant evidence is as follows:

1. FBI memo 18 Oct 1960 re Biancana FISUR:

Biancana reportedly assured those present that Castro's assassination would occur in November. Moreover, he allegedly indicated that he had already met with the assassin to be on three occasions... Biancana claimed that everything has been perfected for the Castro act that the assassin had arranged with a girl, not further involved, to prop a 'girl' in some limit or find of Castro: 2 1977 IG Rept 0195

Comment

SECRETdates of
Although the initial meetings between Maheu, Romatti, and Giancana


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

SECRETM
are sulyeit to different interpretation,

it is clear that no places were
ferrand between the parties by
runtil some time after October 196.
The fate of the intercepted conversation ay
Fiancana.

The prim pille, prepared by the
CHA of bimenai's request will
not nay for delivery will to
ally-Cay March 1961, so that it
is difficult to see how fincanais
November 1960 assassination plan
could be a part of the BA.operation.
Rather, it appears that the motor had
its poran plan in proper wings.
a mithunry of Control to accomplish the
dld, when the CHA fortuitously
happened wing to offe is support.
The mod was then in a ruper
position. If their perato
plot actuly worked, and cattro died
then the Syndicate had ennon
chmall potentill agunt the CHt
which it callld wain of the
![illegible text]
regies me per
then their portum
would be that they were
ont attempting to velute the
whither of their government.

Additional Comment
The dofinish of Fiancana's
hired hand". Richie Cain soon
not to raise some infintiy
possibilités. birin Chiris admission


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET

0002213he FBI that he had met the cubans
and shufpeffid the ducis present
joined the  Sheriffs office whill on fecerans payroll
approach to SAM OF A
Chings office in the field as
informalne to them common in
1900, to volunь a little, more than
apearco incidental, then
Bre he is planned to go to Cube for a
stay and
Life Magazine (od me sky/ 7obug" influential cubars in
Havanna onensing ity for ld-budu
Prio (siend story, the coincidica
deunes more suspect. The surfin
is that cain was burg sent
meona figurine le prisonin
akeupt on Fidel Castro. Onon calced
be the "an ufendo inth C46, 1968 wr or de
Could be the contact man for the
the "avan to be " operatim.
I The in menio on Cain with
Sallinis vyen whichis sy strugg suppebel
I the wind, that the cain win the missing scand man
te "in yu hos Oly writas y ret 30, 1960- Mahur needs guidend on this points
Carry comfimied to "vollunteer" informam and until I THI CDA
19431 offuld momen me BRE
Idung 1901-1963, In tight 198. imfonon on the Study mego that
affire of the firey - In Sinergy, Cutela


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SECRET

0002213

was the former head of the Director's on Cuba when he was a major

power in deposing Batista.
In September 1963, Cain reported to the Chicago office of the CIA that the DRE was in a debt to purchase a large arms shipment. He was told by the agency to "get out of the picture" and was subject to personal intimidation, including the fact that the CIA was writing publicity against.

Again, on November 27, 1963, Cain, now the chief investigator for Cook County Sheriff's office, gave the agency some information that Oswald was in Chicago in April 1963 with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee and asked who authorized the assassination until it March 1963.

2. Recruitment of the potential Assassin

In describing the putative poisoner, Francana supposedly spoke of a "girl" who was close to Castro while the individual researched for the CIA file was, Juan Orta, a secretary in Castro's Prime Ministry.

The identity of the "girl" referred to as Brancana can never be ascertained, but Trafficante was clearly in the best position to recruit one of Castro's Cuban mentors due to his multifaceted contacts in the Cuban gambling and prostitution worlds.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

It was common for Andere gauge Trafficanto, Rottoman, and Towne to have cuban mistresses and of the examples. Abo, one witness accustomed to aury at the Macimu Hottt (owned & Mike Michany) cenescorts lighter basis so vest me of his paramous. This, it would have fun relatives easy for lifelame to have anaryed for it is a go women to service ca 10 ms woe to attempt & poisin him.

✓ Marta Lovery is, notness to say the least and het a potential as an Massin recruit discussed. However, one entity of Frank Stuger has been pursuing point is that she was lies is Journés mispers and these could have been solicited to activato the person plot. Unfortunately Trump is totally uncooperative and Loreng was hot asked about her rekonsep.

Comment do not mean the alted match.

Juan Orta, the & man concepts in castris inner circle, was Contan was memunar to the agency as the gungepés comen invested by professor former recept of games heuttama

One park is extrung bothersome However, intent attemptry to guage the dypth of the volt sincurr in using Intal is execute the ransom plan Accndy to the split To Report T report & upper pt


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

1002215

SECRET

Octa est liss position in the Pune Montin
Office on 24, 1961, wled plany for the
operation was still griyon in Miam
and in Wardynt seendy to the
official version Orta merupted for the
ills in lash Fily-cay Muchitar and
Before reture fem
kept the pills for a couple of wethe
"1967 Full Rpt p27j
If the mob was clone noghto
Onto to have fille somyged in aud
out of cute, then they had to brim let
Onto had int his gostem of reussibilty.

??, the other gotten
lots, that the

h
pubs nev
neve T and the
we will go to wen
be whe hought on the plot

2

al
The gusten axisie then, de
to whether the mot was jusury
thur own missent plot and
The CFA operaten or what appears
more they, Simply using the gry
outline,
for the ulfur moferes prevary

Tuincy to Phase II of ye
operation with regan in in Spil/gar, spil.
there the serne possibilition
wish. If Hany and an
correct in amly that sang had
walhd its an "ongory arrsion, then
pet be anned that the mors
uchi wets de v menn, wach puuduta
pabicpatu acendo Th5

it can be

CFA

1942,

18 Jary 1981
hed contimed.

UNUS 21 Dec 1980, and 18 f
una
intensepted after
the Bay of Pigosthith the receptinge


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SECRET

of the CFHS participation, funding
0002216 and support could, be refined to the Agency.

The Varona could continue to deal
through MACIO & not Charles, Ressells.

Phase II in terms of the ambiguities
there to those structure of
native of the operation means of intent.
The lack of identity of the following
arnassers, the complete
interference
hing upon muller words set fast stroke
legitimate or ability to

summed ut, the Agency
to corroborate Rosellis
information, the
at these and others must have
syndicate was not
scores and stat
affer the Bay of Pigs frasco the solidification of street and other must
Bay of Pigs frasco ach
solidification of
on Castro's Cuba, being
Tropferenttt, fourby
Calayed that the “golden goose” of Hummel
had laid its with egg, and that future
will to be made elsewhere calling, the
evidence Shock Early inghere in
Bahamas, Las Vegas, and Traficante projects

In the one new
for Florida with
influx of Cuban
mites. It was also abundantly clear
that the new Justice Department
program on regarding could never
puncture the “wide-open” Cuba of
“The pre-Hemmes had it over if
of Castro
r and all wis his comment associate, the comedy
be dimmery. SECRET1

Suspect the watering


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET-
usc02217 basenus sense in
continury the pranafore attrapts
agant castro in a sulitanterve way,
thire still was a pucentage in
"Shinging the Agory almy! Furt, Mere
because the Agery was poudy puls
was no legerite to the syndicate
there was the mounting molinting punire
fume the FBD and Glutee Pembun
which had to be blunted, of Ensuite,
No better weapon & cripten ther
goal could found then wir
one yong (CPP agent
look at the recad shms th
suplypurot of strategy of mounts
of disis for these who pukeptd cod
T the E

1. Robert Mahue
- Quartyry Long cmt subpoen
  in 1966 2 Infum Report, p79, pot 3; Interm R Morgan
- solidificaten of portion with
  CIA and with Hughes Inggitin
  [Hugher was defenity ford by the priest & Mulun
  in Nov. 1980, and was himself infurth on
  allimce with the CPA whed which in furt, pearma
  later when Mathuras Hughes pumpel exut
- Intern Report, 975, nott 2, Malim Southingten?
- Dispute with Hughes; See mins 20 may 1971
  on office of serings File on Sewa P Morgand
2. John Resell
   -evardiy commeal puncutter E Infurm
   Pepnet, 855, note 4,
   use in sigal memo in Mach 1971 18
   atttript to reduce sentence
- attempts to helly deputaten
  beaump with DNS which included


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

0002218

Jach andusene gunnel interestin with PRS (See Andum puternewied CIA Resilli fill offre of serunt fill re kirtand P. Morgan I

3. Jam semeans

- Jator 1960 were kepin for twen where brincoin got Mallun 5 Jake the beat for him of deny the sup We a result of the CPA glas.
- zarly 1962, intervent with FNL Farrell of IN'S re pornble suportafon I see Tab C, Renelli To Fill, stating that my Eswah Os Gom, saglasn Rocca, & Housten know I attempts to ward off FB sunvelluce in 1963 L 1947 De Report p 1297
- Connecaten neth som pupich, on 3 May 1967, scum commit that Roselli and baricana have A *ever a barrel* because that you panel because He said that he poulted think Her FBI would be able to do anything dbart either Reselli or brancana beculse of ther previous attentes n th your peegler 11 (2967 F.G.Rptp. 131

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

Note re Jack Anderson
"Castro Retaliation" Theory,
March 3, 1967
March 7, 1967 3 Drew Pearson Info

Source:
1947 Ib. Report
1). It is quite likely that Roselli is
the source, morgan the channel, and
Anderson and Pearson the recipients
(P1205

- We may now assume that
  Infinito source
  Pearson story is not used together
  from bits and pieces, picks up
  here and there
  Roselli, seems more uncertain
  dl fails than we do and he evidently
  has failed.

(P1201

?

-Impact
The Roselli-Giancana matter infor
Vegan in Mich is partly shady
It lands substitute reports that
Castro had something to do with the
Tenney is associated in retaliation
for us. Attempts on castro's life. We do
not view that
Castro actual did to
retaliate, but we do (CTA emphasis) found that
there were such plots against Castro.
Logically, especially, it now appears
may not harm this
(p1221

Mahin

SECRET

ldoes have good guarantees not wanting
the story and further. Uninformed publicity
might cause him lose his lucrative


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET
002221 client, suyers. There might be some value to be gained from enduring his suggestion that he approache
Wgan and perhaps Comelli and wige distinte.

- The Peaisen story, wlude is new chunjus so much distrere, includen one detail that is my found in Phase Two & the three-manteam comment

Not nennuy. still varona was involves in Chaal one aho, be may have begun the 3 man team initially and my hulpd amelli on the concept in Ohsee two selle just didnt mention the 3 mun team Mahen or o'mall dry Phase.
Comment

In figury aut ulfenor muterén for a leak to Praison, Agay malus the folleny point-

If protectenever went the source has scening, be could be bitther amured of getting it by a direct approach to EDA for pelp Ep 123 Since Agency /n figure are ulfuror motive, they delede that Romelli is dinkay too much and to Morgan was in ales dunly ad Fally y te heensgin Pearsons
Comment
SECRET
Drew Pearson has not yet, as for as we brum, used Bod of the stry of the pllis


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

and the fact of the State Dept. meeting,
0002222 P 1225
Comment
SECRET
See p 112 where "Drew Pearson claims to have a report that there was a high-level meeting at the Dept of state at which plans for the assassination were discussed."

I.b. speculates that Pearson is talking about the 10 August meeting of the Special Group (Sigurd) which was attended by Harvey. (PIR)
E R F F was not present

2. Other sources
   a) Memo re: 15 Feb 1972
   DCD aware that Roselli were going to expose plots. He "decided to ignore his threats and take a calculated risk as to the consequences that may occur with the disclosure of his story. This was subsequently done by Roselli or someone in his behalf furnishing Jack Anderson details of the incident."

(Memo in offer of security fail re Maggio)

3. Memo: 20 May 1971
   Subject: Portal
   Mr. Pease (former CIA & now with Swerte, said Mahren & Anderson together on some oil mix deal).

Recent exposure of Indurain re Maheiu roll in the Cutter revolution was a deliberate exposure instigated by Robert Maheu using Smith, son Peter, as an intermediary.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

0002223
SECRET
Pease' theory is that Mahon quotes thought that such ublicly would "Scare them off" (re. Intuted wi n pour CIA stuff to intturan Highs)

"Magan mally noises to cuten Hugher offices that they held better fore of eay on Mahon because of his gast part noobent with CFR & menu in secuty File re Mingens

4. Memo 19 Nov 1970

> 
Harry had confatti with Roselli in Noember - December 1967 and Jory 1948 follery Roselli corvetter-
- 17 NOV 1970

Morgan had wurde callfoon Tom Wadden wes reperush smelli that Roselli faced deportation aid would Alen Sty. DePaluddo ignore threat and Maher agreed.

""Maken fother adund that he was not concern about ty puberty as if it offered win guemes

5. 19 Dec. 1967

-Sever of creveraten onstyabd of Harry on Rossellis behalf to get CIA interest direct or at least good oort case agant Roselli inas.

- Calls fum Rosselli began on October & Harry.. Roselli Ayew wit Agery had denk for Mallen with Sen, Leng perline & Mayn oed


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

Rosselli:
-Abo the Darecter Helmert had sent
Haruy a news clypis in Agency use
of puncana ( journals the present 1963
Date Araps story Smutters.
- said the Senator Keene office warmterey
  was stell Affry General,

6. Mems 28 Apul 1947
- ''Connell sent to Las Vegas to
  find out source of Pesign stuur
  Mahan almiit jelly Morgan seme
  of the Phase I operaten que to
  Agery the Phase I operation due to

- Mahan visity upset with Morgan
  gouy to Pearson and ind of the
  Pearson and ind his song omittoo
  wery

- that amabeul had been identifier
  the "chent " stly Magan becure
  be was afraid of the
  and of the pupy

- relattastig woly with Nuts, then with rith
- dined dreamy letter prese
  of said he had ne einlage
  I operam affu/1942
  met Morgan

- met Morgan progle sente
  reenspun in the 195/5
- tabu recallah Morgan auf
  Roselli met with dich in for Ulyss
  dury March 1987. Und the te
  ompression that Roselli sent
  advice fom Morgan but did not
  Anen hmm the circuit

- Roselli spindle myuse
  dinting heaves beda 99 groll gir
  Billed Morgan had deni some
  Lum PRD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

From Handlen
Raven of Off of Justice
SECRET
Janua 6th

15 Jan 1977
0002225
Memo re request of Dell CJ
investigative for information on
8 Cabans:

1. a. Ramon Don Festevery
   b. Rolando Masferrer Rojas
   c. Luccano Nuvéé
   d. Jose De la Tormente
   e. Jose Quintana
   f. Joaquin Antoned Cortijos
   g. Manola Artimce
   h. IMLASH

2. Two of the 3 Cubans mentioned on
   Roselli (SSC) testimony.
   Two names mentioned in a 9 Dec
   1970 office of Security memo

v. No background investigation done on
Riselli or Francana
VI. Sporadic contacts, direct and indirect
between Roselli's Agency officials and contel
approx. 1971.

13. O' Connell has always been informed
    by Dade CJ.

I Office of Security has no such
evidence (that Cuban pullqve serve may here
been involved or Cuban agents in plenum area
during time of his death
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SEGRET

0002226

Nievéé

c. Released in March 1965 after serving approx 16 months of a 20yr sentence for anti-castro job; went to S pain briefly where he was of interest to Madrid

- August 1985 embed US

Saken

- Nov 1985 to Jan 1966 of operational interest to DDO

Shinman

He is mentioned on the John Roselli file as a personal friend of Roselli. IT is further noted that Shinman knew Roselli but nature & extent of their official/social relationship is unknown.

30 August 1976 request by S/A Staved C. Rudiger, Alexandria FATD office.

- Cuban contacts of Roselli

1. Juan Orta

was an official of the Castro Govt circa 1960-61 and was a contact of Santos Trafficante. Orta was originally selected by Trafficante to make the assassination attempt against Castro.

2. Tony Varona

When Juan Orta was not successful in carrying out the mission against Castro Trafficante suggested Varona be used. Roselli contacted Varona. Varona went to see

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET

0002227

arrests of his m to carry out the mission

Varoni also repeatedly used his sm. miles
to arrest him in this effort but there is
no identifying info in regard of The Miri

3. Roselli had a man, alias pul
   Miami, minus Harvey "Mot
   what also used the names Garcia many
   and scalar, Hany was unable to
   identify Macro, who was und es to
   Cullen who spoke Italian.

f. No info in regard to death or
517-339-3523 race arrests against Roselli or
cuban in sol or moby, benzina - Tropp,
Somers, or ingen mel

3. March 15 Feb 1972

4. This Agency was aware that Rosselli
   intended to injure his patient in the
   hospital or there should we not inter vene
   on patients behalf. The DCI decided to
   ignore his threats and failed to calculate a
   riske as to the consequences that may occur
   107 of the patients if his story, thru me
   subregional directly Roll or someone
   in this behalf furnishing Jach & Allen
   details of the incident.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

0002229

Menw 20 May 1971
Ors Suljerh. Enter Tel

Magan netween engaged of theher Tore porez sound Mehungen of
effnts. Meare former Ageng man's Interfel uw, said Magan
maky noises & Outerug opriate, but
thiy hal better tabu it cry on Miten becuk
of his past moobemel W. (FH

I John Southend-ion 1992-64 in fiel
w) Malins minutterworf work out als
of a non official cover avanemunt w/
Accuft Dor of Hyde off

For part secures Magn med bem quid mist.

In May 10,1971 Nh. Sean wid Mar
Andery are involod togetti in sou velmi
deas. Dvertel cooly into this rullocker
meh suneter ma bin to there the source disμιας
If funds. Ressent expe of re

Mabuz coll in the Coon Revdafi war a
debitats exposure instigated by Root Helen
uning his sm Peter as an offenadley,
Pearer thing is that maken prob. thaf
such future would scare thenety!

the Pufertel staff is avere gt
contacts & miltings better t
and och Anton of a mende of bus stat

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

19 Nov 1970
For: DCI
suly Reselli, Johny

2. For August 1960, Mr. M. Bisell appeali
   Col. Hoffells Brass to M- of the offer of
   security and assets that may amist in a
   rensiere mission resuy gangsthe-fope
   action. the Missoni trget war Fidel Arten

5. Mr. Mahun advised that the bod mut
   one If on sevad ocessor wall ventus leg.
   He out even turn carelly thr, culents, act
   ivas given to understand theit be was a
   *brigh rantiy member of the must
   all of the ice maly munu om te strap.
   Mear named Hus, if I was in in fet a

6. Malin to approach R who hew Mas a pr
   isses hearily pressedic freyr sitte

7. Pitsch madim, 14 Sept 1960 at Hilton
   His Funited react was to swald guy woolbl
   but the mo jumpam, he apiced to introduce
   lins a frund som bold wes hur un thr
   Cuban chood." We my equuild or part,

8. I wey the week of 25 Sept, Malin
   introduced to sam strayy at the Fourie belan
   It was seral rectes affer un mely
   //
   WI sam id gon, who where

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

SECRET

J. to him as a courier operating
between Havana & Miami that he
saw photos in Sunday "Supplemenus of Farba."

9. In discussing the possible method
   of accomplishing this mission, Sam suggested
   that they not resort to terrorism but
   that if he could be furnished some type of
   potent pill that could be placed in
   Castro's food or drink, it would be
   much more effective operation. Sam endorsed
   that he had a potential nominee
   in the person of Juan Orta, a former
   official who had been running
   "kick-back" payments from the gambling
   units, who still had a connection
   to Castro and was in a financial bind.

11. Joe delivered the pills to Orta, He
    sealed wells of supposed attempts, Orta
    apparently got cold feet & asked out
    of the assignment. He suggested another
    candidate who note served amps
    w/outsuam.

12. Joe then indeed the tum
    shinn...but veremi seemed tempered
    (N) the appunt ineffectual progress
    If the youth and we willing to handle
    the mission from them притег

13. He asked, asa perequinte to the deal,
    that he may be geven 10, 100 for

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SECRET

? How w
sieux, no RTK Mindg
vouvert in wrightep, stari gat per
to mallis on vee druped

17. May 1942 Harry took me as Case
    officer dit is not known by this office
    whiter to was used opus full fome
    phut pubirt n

0002233

17. Hegar sky Nov. 1947
19. Harry regaled to of this
    contacts wi Rin Now -Dec 9678 July 964.
    18.2 Dec 1948 R Rosveld of Fuar an.
    It was his belief that Joey win schaut
    the Agay Agay for IN. amstitu
    unters he actually ford deportation, diamtelen
    It expunet empedimed that he walk wein
    an appeal.
20. 47 Nov 1970.
    Malen called o Camell to advise
    that mabus attorny, ad Morgan, had
    reerd a call from Tom
    Jm Wadden who stated
    Je wauch someone din inferede
    appeal execunt to fres dyrtation.
    expose of his acterafn of Agres mall a complico
    211 18 Nov 1970. DCF bugs & derat
    not to anst R. Malu was so
    Alvosed of Agrest position,

Sentit 5 del Canon Hart tran
J 18, 1971
mptit iginal w/ Pur Sons. He futer
carried that he was not concern, abut
My publaty on it arbeta umi quinny,

SECRET
Ma


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

VLVIILI

rooftop, lest of Fet or font of Machiles
3
CODE March 13, 1961 & dilevel cupeus to мет &
contact ut Fontaniben
- ai fui webs lafu cos trill

Feb 23, 1971
Sam Giancana to line up a care of
Me confidential files report Mat & had
Once be called in clu rachet bers
in teust and un in fent.
inte ganby
Shung brennen in Cuba"? Hmeur, the
Chi gangster tests no derect past me massinatir plol.

19 Dec 1967

Minw For Recond
Telyline cernensen Hary & Amrad Osbom
the nict of our Dir of Security
2. the funt nevald chen agn
Jill the vallef of M
or not the
Hims To consider wry possite inferrentun mis verals

3. Hary indicated that the thought the
   nory of sitting fight" het be aleeglet,
   but that be felf filt i wana lu a sriple
   diarpe mater for the D'or to sa Hrvu puramary
   cenopprix, cau my swis what actuel case The Grafen Dyet hod.

Oson - speculats Hany pay to Vadidigo cane on price
Hay to work for Map


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

11 December

1.  Harry requested Linden mention w/
    Pagich in 8th Des. & Oshomm Design
    26 Nov 1947. R calls Harry.

2.  who met him at Madison Hotel

3.  bus
    27MM, they "burd" into on polttimo
    Harry invited Ras" Mr. Halsen.
    28 Nov spent 11 hours at prestuda
    Carry Club.

4.  According to Harry,

2 R in town to see Morgan re
radio station in Sanse. Nor
wmed re niet warm bu aught.
-R- said he had not seen femeni
somes 1165 (Papich chiching a my
Urgent to Harry) /

R. In stats or imply that he
wanted bills from Agency.

b. July Fold Harry in bencka
nuty w/ Col. Edwards in 1944 o huy
misty O'cmnd had w/ Moll & R
in Cal, men de refund four duty in antra

7.  Harry ennis that the mist Muro
    status of case. If it or a good case,
    Harry they must ent
    influid to have the matter held
    if it is not a good case, yet Harry 1011
    Golby & he will well it all.

10. Harry indignant at nagutan bis
    meat was more then the muted Agency


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

SECRET

0002237

He had my the bybistry for
and the way we had handed his proven

A. Havy is source
R calld in
8 Nov 1947

R cand in Oct 2nd a 27m lit
-cucndust
Hary ufurd to suve as Ri attery
-2 wondud of Neng

do as much for sinn en it did for men,
Id Morgan um bat spy is for Men

w) In Long & had told golery beat thin.

Ostern & Hary at brunch,
4 Octobr

R gusto vehements belly re
Mahun iniens makin world "sell anyone
damn the liver to protett his annet."
Dor had sent parza neus cleppey
re use of franana, I said Lich came
from Sen. trenndi offre were he was still
-
Frin
28 April 47

Canul vragen allly untold me wgh thet offerith in an't indecay be had a vent whs bad bun insoled wir an gumpon aqual tests7,
sad the had told Wing when spory delyey on fing sulzenn.
2
laben sinds upset tady if he did son chereled as clent sure

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

0002238 concerning his relationship of Hughes.

5. No knowledge of person affected 1968 & never discussed latter phases of R
6. Maken - R met Morgan then he engaged wi 1950s when Morgan doing legal work for her Vegen firm.

R & Morgan in Vegas small head in Much. Jim Gaum in turn "it was Melhus" recalled that these individuals spent some time together. He was under the impression that they sought legal advice from Morgan but [illegible] knows little of their conversation.

7. Claud R had divorced rapidly Sheriff dealing, 11 yr old girl & assault of [illegible] for false to [illegible] R pretty pummace for Melhus to secure his friends.

8. Believed Morgan had done some work for Pearson & did know that Huddon had more than a passing acquaintance with Morgan.

Morgan fight with Pat Cayne for NSA.

9. Knows only heavy problem of the FBI but [illegible] how things.

10. It is evident that Maken is deeply concerned about possibility of being challenged with Castro project, but played cooperation in a heavy incident.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

OLUNCI
1002239
Sen fery Mahu
Shenker, Louy's pund 18y, foll bre
hat Meln ivided it Agey.

7 Jeruke
Maben reported sy magan os dialy
wi Sttain way, a fund fund of tay,
ru melues, appeaici -

3. Finstuwall. hul identified sam
   Onam, ito ly name to O'Connel
   Col, Lewends,

In the case of Sam, Ed Dubdia
& a couple of his technician nen vore
of Mahiner fie-in w/ Francina.

31 May 1944

Main ated if "Sam pranth" wa in
the wind

17. Morgan had avand mun put the
    brand Longs jumal at the muts opust
    inforcem Ing, they flew to Star

o this the 3 mm film to DC. L
w/ Ingo Fenstoneals Festivald
wanth Maher as his puт ни мом
asr that makes clients are gust appel
yor T.V. Ho phut Mean and ont gee
enagh I will punt, mulentory sup
по

M, Fountoval polls poced

13. Maru clans миж циклаA

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

Sam threw a series of cucumbers that were pruned at our request. The then A.D. RFK was orally briefed on the background that led up to Mahui, moreover as a Top Secret document funneled to Justice Dept. which served as a backdrop of the inquiry.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

Q3
1967 D.G. Rpt
SECRET
0002242

Each phase is a reflection of the there
purvalley cor's attitude forward the Curren

a: Prior to August 1965

All of the identifiable schemes quis
to Aug 1960, wr one parable exception,
will aimed out at dir really contes
pumus. by in fling his belben or
5. August 1968 to Aurel

Plots aggreninis pruned; viewdy of participants an
ir bast some ds one asped o ffort to overthrow regerint cullimaty andso
1981 to 11961

Mayor scheme begon Aug to was called of after BOB & umened dormant to serialunn

d) "Late 1981 to late 11аг

Particular scheme reactivated in
Cas caly 1962 & puced vegnoy in era of Manto E
e Late 1942 untel well into 1983

After mentionsies college project
COTE, aggreuwe scheme begin try 60, revert
3 in sul. 1962; were finalf termingedien conf 1907

p. Drew Pearson, column of? Manh1967 furt a report CPA flan in 1903 to las Ho.

He who has for:
ers amuth to
a) Statt Dept mytny at which, austen dizion diam

5) team actually landed in Cuba wi pills


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

Adj.

SECRET

0002243

5. If `_SECRET_` is more willing to reinforce thought that details would allow further channelled to deviation or scarf degree. MF Oct /9ac rep.

Res Final Report requires taut pub plots here no ulsam in a precisin

Reily - Transport

> I the Report Assassination Groups

5 agent never new divested yurt to plan to Mtel Astro or proposing such action. Three of the messages related to the same operation, the other two referring to separate proposals; there is no indication what may of these proposals was the result of interim

MARC/5d 29/July/1962 and was executed 28 August 1962. The chap has been reported as never admitting that he was a CPH agent. His name as given is Moore. That were


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

SSC
AMLASH
SECRET
0002244

1) infuse that AMLASH a custo agent with the minum of provoolly a plus ayunt ut or brand pouentepetton for Math,.

29 AMLASH so indirect you leads could have been enam thus pouvelly Castu
1111

Agony - the character of the station twin CIA and AAA 11, prior to enter of per keruty, was so insulien and in concluire that it providd no vesek fu MBS #11 to feel that he had any fergibe Ett support for juotting agent Wor

there was littet for lun to ufort or bat"!

over a year passed filmien tegut 1942 and Sept 1963 when he war nich contacted y CIA. In times of the sellten ship that the and mitt &/A tht Pritech purid, sin is thiryue Deten 5 Soft and 22 Nov 190

Fered Rupert
Al p5

Reann for briatus is out. Imurist in have culai pe was emanté due to his potentill

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

SECRET

Cable on Sept 7th says "ompts otach
#otaty spored that wew will alwap
be a control probem,

010

hiz in
is best approached as a
Chief consperator allied to veruct
mu cohorts umay whom we
may then find purus susceptible
to long distance rund covert tegni

Cleary, at that point werk KH,
was viewed as potentialf potentialf wingertont, winn the
ivar alio viewed as a plison of undirfor
Cassiste, inqury careful best lowy
range diviapins for whatnere cou
alicen that might cover.

p3-4 op SSC Sarry and Fendus, pruntt
MLASH asan man pos
& infure is test cartier Sept 7th
yuurr nught sure buna nimelt of lett leaк
by ANLASH

"the fact remerer that whateve
Men HMLASH// may have expersd, be
brad no response fun his ETA contests
of dry support for this proposale at that me

Fatagold matory stald be перанов
high-poner used we elbaupe seghts

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

0002246
SECRET

14 Nov AM WHIP requisit of Hutt

saterpill w polies polly consists of witry
over fact he had And not been gevin
technical assistance. He ein underta
owly he had not bon guin cetari sual que
wich speech promienda a full Stuar

Immunt

In essence he I was wed
there would be no us. Support until after
the fact, and then only if he was
ricciful, in bell that may not seem
a vey realistic way in which to beng
about the over throw of a govt, it is
directly relevant to the queen of weat
AMLASHII was told and what the unus.
It is caftray to the statement in
the SSC Faine Reput (18) to the effect
that H was not cler has.

ster Song 1104 THI Rout steley that
Mhts & wilupy wutt oft regin and
His Femy had refund to segon ph

19 No63
N063

Fiteral popud selley
cache wisede serra,

sd be geven.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

SECRET

0002248

Could, if he seguented it, windede..
ligh-power rifler co/ scopa..

19 March HET CIA as a
lity to Cuba.
Requent by headpuites to asthen
to dily for more mutun.

nitty

tinkts # aper "if it is smutny

19 SSC Agricullule that tons is fort
indle
in dean be right cucium specific suppn
Agmy - ot least a que if Me
speculaénu aristigen, veot sugerid y
evilla,

( Fails to mention per wee / Pilutiry
Bime)

N M te varda)

n24

"unanove of MILASHI 1963 aucun
WIM
LEA
& Mfo at least te your ta
afou death of JFK, no idea of 1923
CFA this w/ LASH went ween
my nimeline

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

SECRET
0002251

*   CIA troice (furt in eary 116/8)
*   gan m<
*   early 1902) myppled id that that pills to
    US gambly syndicats membres... The 1961
    plot aborted & spille pelle ou werend
    these fuinised in April 1962 punt
    f gambly rep. up. to tha a cutan life lesson
    Feld who in them, bad them sunt to cula dere
    M 1942. In rome 1962, the te laten
    unald that a team of 3 men had been
    Hispatch do Cuba & recruit for the operaten.

while the events duced of Drew
Besien did occurs are select to bury
potched together is the me complete sny
Bu implicaton ofs of s best des couvertp
any thimis unfouтык-

918 Dury the weth of 25 Sept 1900, O'Connells
Miken went to Marm where Resele introtted my
Rallied
mur to" Sam bold" at a muty on the
Fontaineblem. Holl. "bold" said he had a man
oben he infefed only as "Joe", nher world suке
as a wurierto Cuber make mangements there.
po when youred out "bold to Call fun altre
bot & Casull Inivu mot cutors "bold or pe

5.19 At that same the grubly commu
still operaty in culpetroffunto in
apar tips benderitan's formun.
war mahug


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

SECRET

p.24 Despute the aureumi that a pasen in lequie form world be mest diserable, what was arlilf prepared and delivud was a solid pasen in the form of small pills bent the suje of and saccharine tablets.

00022524

Comment vincenn He said that no me could be appened to the use of fireans. He said that no me could be and to do the job because this chance of survivals wege would be neglige but that a preferir for a lethal pill that could be put into Castres food and divit. Traf. (que; fre the cou rien war in forech nith a disefferul cutanfinal with recus to castio und peranaly a Wite courier of a sort that would enold him to surgery, poison Castro, the garystus nand then wher mside is Juan Orto whe we was them office auch auf

Ductor bermado the offre of the Preme Mantalon the gerysther said that enta endene fans. in a position to neuve le fun the gambery intents, hed since lost that speace of income and medis the momy)

P27. Hate Fed-Mach 1961 is paind the spells is Tres. Route Bilevied to cohen Aur, Onta is unden

reported to o Camilll that the julle had bu

to have drept the 37/1s for a couple of wides fofore were them. Hecorry to the gougstore, Ohh Cho got coll

Rect

Cammit on this pensen in Mi


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

SECRET

offer on 26 Jan. 1981, meill for the
Azuren was still guyen in MMA & Wanlife.
He took refuge in the Senegalus Phebrang
0002254 April 1, 1961...
... It would seem that the
gavegster Nik drone that orta had alreaky
his accer to Castro.

p30. The allinni hothers wue blend for
in touch with Venena. Hrum mors at wue
reported to have offered Varom lage sums
of money for his quatens gout cutywit
the industriding that they would wurve
evelyd treatment" in the Webs of the perfere"
lupts to verify these reports were unnesses.

psl. Traff appurance chuma and fold beric
that he had chints who wanted to doeroy with
Castro so that thy waull py bey muy for the
Onment.

Rumdli said in a loyal meen in mulbe
whatever he could o would reva devrilga
the apodion]

P. 31. R torte delher may to Olona for expunsiu.
75,mo; pennum wally 25m
-O' Cunill reculls 50500; Edwards

032 Rosselli selll gave the gills and may to V doen, Ma
Rosselli dealt with a pseudonym, Little
is known hamn of the dittising Bittung channels chanelle bynd Varma


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

SECRET

p.32 Bewards recalls somety about a contest who worked in a restaurant frgentes by cents.

0002255

P33 (O'Connell) beleven phat the wen sombry gary on bernul 1941 adult but he cannot realll whirt, He agrees coth Bill Haney that when the geatm wes uvirke Azul 1962, Hary fork over a" gong operaten!

/

134. O'mall bileren in must have and the pille, but he has no jutro juyo mollet wollen of hory dene so.

p 49, Roselle needed bean & Troff in the just phase as a means of establishy anitiste inside Cuba. He did not need them in the second zhese because he had. Vacuna, peness, it would be naine to assume tunt Reselle did not take the precaution of infomey augher ups in the syndicate thest he was worthing in a ferntay considered to be the uvite dagain of someone the in the syndicate)

Cune 1962 Navy Harwy suid thy appened to have no spezife Specific plan plan for for hillly bil Castro. thy were corut otblls who might be used in succ might be and on radia sdyne. If an opportunity to bill dentro pante itseb thy of the pusous thay recruited were to snake the attempt Sideps using the pills.

SEC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

SECRET

0002256

Hawy never dained ther names orayly about them.

152 Hawy says Rolli wanit breddly pudy. Le agued with Hawy that nothy was ragering and that there was not mich chance that arythry would happen in the future.

Azmi RFK- I fuest that if you en play's to do business with regayed eyrnu- with gousstun you will at the Atay fined bum bifre you do 16. Houston quotes awards de rupejong lers. this was a reasonable request.

p. bl. The Altay femerals copy of the mome in the reend of that beberg May 6 2 of Strader 1. Sarsens is in Archnén of fll to's office.

peler. Errago Sun-Tormer recter of 16 August 126.3. 14 cives Juster Dest bely that amand reve did any soying- muy puterised to go ally in "the hope that the Justice Dest dive to putt putt bin beand id bars bars. might be slowed brat least affecked by his ruse of co-operation w/ anotto govt arsy ". bifre the antive trial puts his crezenten fur 1959 to come, terme in 1960-lmy bilfre ridel invasion at the Day of Pigs in Apell 1901 Pronts Mcburé bugging incident.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# JCUREI

p69 20 August 1943 Chicago Daily News
FBI agent talking to man who allegedly says:
"Why don't you fellows leave me alone?
I'm one of you?"
broken pictured as being approached by CIA but declined

AMLASH

179?-DR from Presidential Palace which they refused to surrender to Che; other did to Fidel
-Cubela believed to be one participating on assassination of HCol Antonio Blanco Rico, head of Batistas military in Europe
-DR guested agent from 20th of July but suits a wrist joint

Agency was primarily interested in keeping Cubela active in PRON program directed against Cuban military leaders, will necessary his plan for technical assistance in an assasination attempt. This voluminous project files and infor furnished us by Nestor Sanrdiy, Cubelas base officer, do not wholly support these recollections.
The Agency offered both direct and indirect support for Cubela to destroy?

087.16 Sept. 1963
Cubela wrote Tezedino - "I don't intend to see I be interrogated your friend again!? When you should tell him," so they don't


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

J002259

SECRET

make the fup: I want to got away
from politics completely?

P92 Sandy sap that, while Cubela was
anxious to do away with Castro, Cubela
was not willing to sacrifice his own life or
change for Castro. What Cubela really wanted
was a silbrenced rifle w/an
effective range of hundreds of thousands of
Yards. Cubela finally said that, as a closing
remark, (wrotill be was /He was quite sure
that we could demise some physical
means of doing the job that heuld not
cause him to lose this on. Ayfern
the fly.

a) The Pearson story

Pubiled Details: The facts we know them

b) Robt. Kennedy may have Not true. He was build on Phase
commenced an assasination plot. me after it was met - He was not
hired on Phase 2

c) three (3) hured assur men enght in
Havana, me still in prison.

ama sap 3 men in club. We don't
know him thin identification which may
have beared him, we have
100 pery that they were actually
Apparel, Vonly ran an announed
Corus and speaker sung this
In Hells Hury 21 January that
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

Cesto lead enough at THIS rently has come to
to blieve the CA was seby to fild in the odeur Enester. It
im. He is
was also statety castello no
is reported to have
file Pilipnas inter duct
intiligat. We have no
widget corroboration of any sort. (No
that bamsin met w) Render
oi Las Vegair March 1625)





SECRET

0002260


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

1977

SECRET

9 May 1967.

Beaubreff appunty to be used as a prore by
Fannon to Sum Oswald a CIA agent.
I was to be used to rumito. Castro. Cauren
alleged he hes Attles regud by CPA repor
or by Sen. RFK-authurizing sutthin inueen
to work with cutem for mus. of Capo.
Jur mumo is enfld to record tul
such attle nevy wired to thatfor coull
scot be in faun's pesemur.

0002261

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

Request

SECRET

0002265

- Richard Cain alu Richard Scalfette
  Rebut Scully Cain
- DOB Oct 1931 Anno

FBD mener

- 21 Dec 1960. mot fonary effler
- 18 Jan 1961. identifies individuals.

Identity of WI ROGUE

- Apell to Appli느은
  sometry going on "
  inceputul of Agency.

- RFK scourty called on 4 Much 67 to other mens; alwat buw article of 2 March 67

- 15 March 65 Bangs in Madrid o claims group in Cuba caty.

- Jailed in Gulf 62

- 1 March 66 Arrests in Cuba
  Trial ufund my to 880 doll 24 o 10965 w/ Artuine meetings

SECRET

10 Junio Repen " Brolli Rems perch The W


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

SECRET

0002266

O. Camille interview of Malen in May 18

- Additional info on S.T. JRO & SO
- contained in material gleaned
- reared for review on Sturgis

- Lucys Tub

Dec 28, 31, 1973

- Cairn

- Fall 1960, contact in Chicago

- Summer 1961. Muray

- April 1962 - mus ed. city

- 4 June 62 deported

- 19 Aug 63 Chicago

- 26-30 Aug 63 Info - re: Sakedent
  Directory, Miami

- 12 Sept 63 DRE arms purchase

- told to get out of picture

- 1 May 1972 disappered

27VN63

- Fair Play met on Feb 63 at 907

![S. Spaulding const. director Michael Crilly]

- L. Ho quashed rifle March 63

- Stay suspense LHO in Diego 1963 April.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

SECRET

6002267

1.  Ramen Don Pestevey Dominquey
    DOB 2 May or 5 Feb 1934.

2.  Rolands Masferrer Rojas
    DB 12 Jan 1918

3.  Luccarid Naves

4.  Jose di le Tominto

5.  Jose Quintana
    DOB 3 Oct 45

6.  Joaquin Antece Corfugo DOB 109cm 45

Edward Peront Morgan DOB 28 May 1913 St Lou

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

TAB B (2-9-74)

SECRET 0002268

Nugar

Covert Secret Clearance on 2 Feb 1951 for use as "cut out" re negotiate the shod of Hawed Drit Studiers & Gole Hopptur Uns.

Amended & Approved March 1951 to include Nugar use in providing covert legal support for oglatuas out the form ofu "cut aus; ligul advser.

Mansnum of funds in committee ul DDO prayer

*   DDO should make deum where to ulare info..

Resorts Fut. #591722

Wallure Groves OS file #473 865

*   assoc wr Meyer Lausky
*   Corp.. and Bahama Development Coze wr Albert Whisant (#633 974) and John P. Roulett (#639-997)

Cain

According to De Mar, Cain in Myrco 1968 into 1962

-1964-45

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

SECRET

0002269
7-Mar-35
Bradly Rare Ayees
St Paul
Beyr
Eglin AF bam Flu

Apull 12, 1971
Post
Apull. 27, 1971 Post
Sunley Apell8 1971
nu name? Danul B. Willams
Paragon Air Suviri
Zenith Technical E. th-04th
cunpur of mum U



Rinh; Hang, Ronan (Hep) Big Dad


Trany sites
alo Alto Key
Upper Key Limo
Card Sound m. exfe of Errelats

Date 10 Aug 1964
Scout Appenal
Refuice 23826 (DDP IWH/SH
Case No. 366085
Request For Pernill Refun
Sul No
364085
Native
Separaten Return to Parent SUC 12-15-64
Ongarpul Denpuhus I'M WAVE
DP/SAS Paramuly Braven Section 14
US Full Off.. Resiska CRC Indi Pol orapo
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

SECRET 0002270

ZR/RIPLE
All (cable traffic bearing ZR/RIFLE to
be delivered in sealed envelope to Chief
FI/DW. D, 15024 Bldg only
- Personally. Approved of DD Plans

Harry
Chief FE/DW.D

19 Feb 1962

To Harry re authorization of $7500
for ZR RIFLE activities thru Dec. 1962
Because of sensitive nature of this
activity, accounting for funds will be by
general category & by your certification
2. Sally 1800 per yr; 7500 in addit. totally
3. Mins to be consulted in lieu of
project & constitute authorization for all travel
per diem; operational & other expenses
4. Eyes only

Rich. D. Helms.

Hand written notes
Morgan - Rolli - Makin - Gaumn
"Marchin lac Vigar
morgan & Jack Inderm
1) Puerto Hugas
2) Augas to April 61 (BOP)
3) April 61 to late tel
4) late 61 to late 62 (Cuban missile crisis)
5) late 62 to April 63


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

SECRET 0002271

Roselli of stored in Sept the
(Mahen to Roodle to Grancenal
to hufd ? may az

Taylor became chair mum of ICS
En 9 Aug liz

Arush, the Nanna, Taylor, Bundy,
Ontwen, bilpsfuck, aminull,
Mumi, meme

Merer For Rend
Rept at requntry DCFi, wasyid
to If on 23 March 67

the me stayback bun uyy (Jo
all notes, o other derind souce mafun
disheyed 23 Mey 47.

Meno: Chiy WH (Daven)
From Dor of secun
Sulpet: wit (sunt het

Fivial accounts of memes experdd on
a sestre pegend of turto DD IP, ley/Wh
y Dor of Lungi

Двинић,

SECRET

25 SV 1900 they too Cutout
6 Feb 1941

690. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

SECRET
0002272

11 Feb 1941 To Penepel Ajeet 1900

31 Jan 1961

14 Feb 61 Commo expum 14043

26 sept 1961

12 Feb 1961 995

Page 3
See(e)
e. Lato 1942 until well into 1963
After mend eisen oct 62 a
collapse of Menoos2, agguine cobine
that was begun in Aug 1965; everd
in April Her, was finally prod zyg 1903
Two other plete wie expudinaьз
bel wen inepressicables nithy come from

b. 10 August 1942
Meeting of special Group (Augments/
wherein me Namibus roodled super of
leguidate of cuben leader.
Result-Prente Muno Y
Lansdule

3/ Jul 64
Descum at Special Grup of a clandestine
Suves mems of excle plot to sell auto.
CIA bad reprises to fund. nite o had no woolm:
and Sesetuer
Misseny
Page 2
Conyalay ballanthe Pran Reliwne
7 Much 1946
-quyme of t th milyon, no
fith to 10m
-Jose ROBREND, Albert FIANCE Ranger dias Tapedind


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

rou inter win van veracy

SECRET 0002273

Lato Sept 1960
Ewards, O'Conelly, Bissell of ques
bravegobel; Ewards then, breefd
Atten Dulles & Genial cabell.

Mahern called O'Conelly pound out
Purall scotom shuy Gold & Joe
(Grennath fut some, Mahern & O'Conelly
buw names)

Joe a comer to cutar maki
anarjenents there accuftobold

Troff maly regular piji toevana
*
7 Jan 69 - canes closed
13 Jan 57-Bestro amares e oxuy
17 Fell 69- Cebenel surones opency
30 Septial - test coins clesid

P23 Technical Clug TSD
4 apprsalis: 1) high force the shelferd
porson to be admused wa jin Cober Collin
Rossevelt suit was suppled to Gacy Precas
(2) bacterial matud in lequld or (3) cegar
41 handarly

P29. March Apell 1941
Rolli fold o'Conelly that Thaff enow a
man high up in eil merent. (canad)
Rpt frun SECRET suput bun Traff


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

SECRET 0002274

hun vaino

al 21 THE 1968 FBF mino u gaupten
fensuring cuben actusten to mutlund Cartoon
b) 18 Jany 1941 anoccults Ve with Youse
Schines. What hired mors are a fund rauen

C/A bad ntut in Mns Autno man
of ay on rohmsin cute,
March for We
09
emmillent to Indien embry)

Nov az y CH sky indy IR MAJOR
a propan for exploitaties of portal emcellats

Roselle to deli UU ESTNAT
m
vay lut Estertine sap 10,00 + 100 of
commcatum as per scing menu.

Omnent - V one of 5 by fequum in Au.
Front o mauf ein vodam Bopp. Steyr
token so end sis pasterpotn in syndicatть
phan but bepeenth wegente.

People who lew:

1.  S. O - onginul man to расой
2.  AV-
3.  son-in law of HV.

SECRET

2/PV


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

Phase 2

SECRET

C002275

Harry briefed by authority of Bissell
in Feb 1961 in connection with a general
stand-by capability for Executive action.
Harry had during annual problem
w/ Arnold Silver & Sidney Gottlieb
looked parties possibly cut in to Cuba
project.

Helms briefed on general concept but
not an ongoing Cuba plot.

QJ will work w/ Arnold Silver for use
in Congo; Justin O'Donnell consult ant.

ZR RIFLE conceived as a FIID operation
(ostensibly to develop a capability to enter safer
or kidnap carriers)

15 Nov 61- Harry discusses application of
ZR RIFLE to Cuba; installed by Bissell
to renew syndicate operation

unrelated - Helms puts Harry in
charge of Agency's Cuba task force

Lots 1161-Fay 1962 Harry breezy

Felix Mach le 2

- Mardicer Harry takes over Castro

- Harry view-

came to think of Castro operation
ZR RIFLE to being synonym.

- Free Helm is synonymous w/ DJUN

- ZR RIFLE STATION refused to Blue Book

- ZR RIFLE alone meant calture


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

SECRET
0002276

A review of his consequence was unrevealing
(Personally handled Castro operation rd/n use any of assets buy directly in ZR RIFLEI

- Moms & Hary offer the left Toutt Force W & going to Rome on 27 June 1963. to Chy F/Staff that Reason to beg QT were no longer with support

- Records (OLLA-1974, 24 April 64) show fermeture of usenberg Statu

- on 21 April 64. thullin no indication in the file that the Elec Adm Category of ZRRIFLE/QJWIN ever used) Edwards

- No activity after BofP until Hary met Revell & realtreet Opel az.

- Edwards mpt comfad w/ RFK over Mefuire wiretap

- 14 May 62 - Aury call walls & indicated he was dropping Roulli farmfanile in

Hay - took me a "gung" operation.

sence he direidd plan for getting poison to a farrite castro restaurant the misherine wise identical to this decwdy, Fonterde and as reported in Pluse one's

- J. Covelll thinks "something guy on" from Apul at ar but e/n umber


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

SECRET

0002277

April 8 the approx

- Harry met w/ Rosselli & O'Connell
- O'Connell portrayed Mako in there.

I Harry say he would have reminded
Mako, saw him society more or twice
after 1947 when Harry came to Agay; not
since '52 when Harry sent to Bedell;

- Edwards deliberately did not mention Mako when he first
  debriefed Harry.

O'Connell out of June '62 when
he was assigned P/S to Ohnaru

p.47
18 April 62

O'Connell gets
all for Roselli
really w/ Harry
on Miami

O'Connell says operation going on
when Harry took of it all, others held on
remainder was transferred.

Harry specified that Gian. not to be
brought in for the 2nd phase & believes
Roselli burned up on

Roselli asked that Gian asked him
what was going on; R replied "nothing
Gian - too bad!"

p.48/ Macco - unchecked a vassociato pend
Antonio MACEO Madell who Harry
probably wouldn't know him. Also, 1, 5'
"Macco was" Roselli knew =
Roselli eventually to 2nd plane as a
contact to Varona.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

p.49. When the pure were genen to rearen reourch.
Vana requested arms and equipment needed for his end of the operation.
SECRET 0002278
I requested nooning support & trans.
pund word to Harry. With help
April 1962 by Shady, chief of TMUW155
a) explosives about 50m of weapons & equipment.
b) detonators
c) 20.30 caliber Harry & Shady rent U-Haul.
d) 20.45 all. put truck in fucky lot for
e) 3 machine deliver to Marco, U, or VI smen in.
f) stradar says, Shady set up watch on
g) 1 Bart Raider do Roselli & I. Cannell.

230 May 62- Shady not aware of plan.
Roselli reported that the pills used in Cuba out at the
Joint restaurant reported used regularly by Castro.
I had dispatch full 3 men team to Cuba
Sept + 1962
Harry saw Roselli in Muman re
7-11 Sept. Another 3 men team
of militia men assigned to penetrate
Castro's body guard but never happened.
"ii medicine" reported safe still in place and first team safe
Sept 62 - Jan 63
851
militia men Harry in Miam. 22 Dec-6 tan
rised to • sand Roselli & Macio second times. Gave
take off Roselli 2700 to 1 pr. gunner of 3 militia
men who never left in Flateys.
Delay due to Feb 63
a) of condition inside Harry left word for Macco in
b) Bob murck sucis Miami 11-14 Feb that nothing now & linked
as if deal off. Oust how Harry lift this
word for Marer is not clear S
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

SECRET

0002279

April May 63

Helms approved a last minute

Why Harry & Rebelli before Harry left

for Rome!

People who knew

Bruce Cheever (Harrys dep't 1962)

knew Harry meeting w/ gangsters in

Reno in winter of 62

May 62

Stuff Edwards Lawrence Houston briefed

RFK "all the way"! RFK agreed not to

prosecute wiretap case but wanted to be

informed of any new deals w/ "gang stars" again

RFK asked for a memo of

the meeting via a phone call" - memo

prepared on 14 May 1962 for Edwards Houston.

NO briefing of McCone, Carter, or Helms

RFK not told that Phase II had

begun; that I had pills & arms in that hall.

On 14 May 62 Harry keeps Helms;

advises against briefing McCone & firing

Carter. Walter Sheridan thinks Roselli

is not going to be used

Comment

RFK's secretary called on 4 March 62

to obtain Edwards memo. He knew

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

SECRET
0002280

of Praisner actirely of a machuzr apponently wanted to check hir verita if what he had been bruft upan.

Helms had heide w/ RFK & allened him to read memo. He din not leave a copy.

1954-55 Mahur herid by Nurches to offset Onassis contol of saudl oil stepmus World at top levels of U.S. & Britch gon't o met at least once w/ Nexon.

O’connel reptid that deny negotiates wi Lory Committee, Mahun statt be might buy his attors i 2 mongan w past actrite.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

10-11 August 62 SECRET

(Wainwright) Tejedino's cable re:
Copenhagen's Wainwright used transiento
r Cubela resistors & Remonto.

14-23 August 62

Cubela, Tejedino, (Wainwright) ,
(Earle Williamson from Madrid: met in Paris.
Cubela given S/W training &
supplies; shown a demolition demonstration.
Refused to be polygraphed.
(William's) cable that no physical
elimination missions be given via
repugnant but he might do it on his
own initiative. Headquarters strongly concur that
no physical elimination missions be given Cubela, &

5-8 Sept 63

Brazil- met by (Wainwright)
Tejedino & Nestor Sandy who become
Adse officer.

Cubela cleared 2 S/W messages but
ony 1 received. Afraid of postal censorship.
That inquiry of Ramon Guin Diaz
AM/TRUNK-10 who was Judy Miguel
DIAZ Isalgue(AMICE-14) who had
been sent to recount field.

14 Sept 63 SECRET

From Brazil Cubela plan to Paris
& was going to tell Castro after the fact


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

AMLASH SECRET

0002281

9 March 61

Mexico City Station

Jack Stewart met w/ Cubela in Mexico City, arranged by Carlos Tepedino AMWHIP/1, a long-time friend. Cubela then (Stratton?) flew to Havanna where he was discussed.

Cubela and leader of DRE,
an elite group of leftist students, joined in 1954 to fight Batista, Nestor Sandbury - case officer.

28 March 61

Both Cubela & Chite wanted to defect, according to asset of Miami Station, Ex-filtrator called up an report
that Cuban police aware of Cubela's desire to defect? His departure plan / Comment

(First of 3 rumored links within DRE & Cubela - but unknown if Cubela and target of meeting in Cuba.)

Other two links are even more nebulous

15 June 14 Heynical

Message from Berlin Station (good friends) Tepedino that Cubela (Judy friend of Stratton) wanted to talk with my predecessor of any military.

SECRET

15 June 62

Lucia Echevarria Biarici told of an asset (HM CONCERT-1) that Cubela going to Pelentes and wanted to defect.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

SECRET

Would stop in Paris to see Tepedino

0002283

27 June 1962

Tepedino appnrald FBI in Mani on 11 June with ided that Cubela wanted to defert. FBI sent a chiel mimoto CIA scure they bun Teadus to be a RTA aset.

8 July 62

Tepelino dissatisfed w/ C/A handy of cubela's defecten in Pais intil so the contact FBI. Sath his struc of info on venns to defection were w/ chivarrian,

30 July-9. August 62 03

(Wm wainwright met w/ Tepidus a jeweller in NYC & foth went to Hebeniti: Cubela. Folbd into buy veruit in places not defeng.
Cubela wanted to Hen up oil refenus bill castro, Calin Poduzey, & fret pehmes

7-9 Acuput 62

Meetines in Stockholm House Helsinki for uninty. with state that he told 4 of his cuban asrattes that he met Tepadrid in Albnkt:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

SECRET

that he was taking a vacation,

0002286

3 Oct 63

Sandy arrives in Paris to meet w/ Cubele who had written Tepedino on
NY that he didn't want to continue.
CIA had to tell French Govt [that efforts were for purposes of deception] French unilaterally begins Cubele under surveillance.

11 Oct 63 Sandy cables that Cubele insists only on meeting w/ RFK informed
Cubele going to try an attempt on Castro even w/out US support.

29 Oct 63

Fitzgerald, w/my SAS, guys to Paris & got approval from Helms.
Fifty states he told Cubele that US would have no part in attempt on Castro, w/him.

Written word from Sandy is underway

14 Nov 63
19 Nov 63

Sandy mind states Fifty assumes that Cubele would get rid of rifles w/ scopes inside Cuba, on request.

22 Nov 63

SECRET

Sandy arrives in Paris on Nov 22 after getting gem w/ Soto's replacement.
Sandy says Cubele accepted gem but stated he would not take it to

VN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

Cuba with him - SECRET

Cubela asked for a cache of
arms to be placed at AMTRACT is
[2 high-powered rifles w/ telescopic sights; 20 grenades, C-4 type
farm; to they left mutiny, beard to get
JFK shot.

Sandy stated he received an
OP in cable from Fitzgerald that everything
is "off" but nothing in AMLASH file.
Cubela will take S/W with him to Prague

1 Dec 63

Cubela returns from Prague to Cuba
19 Feb 1964

JM WAVE to have 2 caches in
place in March.

Done on 17-21 March 64 on
AMTRUNK VIII

24 April 1964

Tepediño had been briefed to
meet Carlos Jorge ROBRIÑO, Murrey
who has message from Cubela.

3 May 64-Rokens says Cubela wanted a silencer

30 August 64

Artime record info thru Madrid
that a group of dissident members of Castro
regime went to to establish direct
contact. 7 Oct 64, Artime sends
Alberto BLANCO Romariz

13 Nov. 64. SECRET

Artime agrees to talk to 201-1
if it turns out he is contact man
for internal dissent group. Artime


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

0002288
SECRET

Think if AMLASH-1 is chief of demoted group we can forget about operation,
4 Dec 64

Sandy prepare a memo for 6570 fr.
Artemis to maintain contacts w/ demoted group; report in Bhagan. Artemis dues
6-5 Dec 64

Sandy meets Cubela in Paris & was tag-going to continue his plans
Told U.S. could not be involved,
10 Dec 64

Artemis didn't know nor Cubela that CIA in direct contact with lack. Rather SAS continued to put both men together.

& A didn't want to put silenced weapon in top Cubelas hands directly but could do it thru Artemis-
27 Dec; 30 Dec (Multiline)

Cubela & Artemis meet in Madrid.
Artemis reports to Sandy that Cubela had requested silencer for FAL use--but Americans w/n gave him one.
Artemis to come up w/ silencer or different rifle in Cuba.
11 Feb 65

Cubela to name pistol as silencer & Belgian FAL rifle w/ silencer from Artemis secrecySECRETth weapons come from USA are now in Madrid.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

unreco

12 Feb 65
SECRET 0002289
Arternie has wegen dilind te Cubela
in medrid.

4 March 65- cubelain Havana; source
4 is friend of Tepedinar peroseliylens him

15 March 65
Rafael Barca Bango Derulee
dureis in Madrid fou Cuba & inforted
to a stoffer.
Outlery close friends of Cupela; & claims
to be on fauch w/ groupy of marly leader
plony to clemens Castio.

Jaddin guz te e for up. Traff
an longer for Apu hotel. Troff-es manger

(Anvelts name - link

June 1965
Vector ESPINOSA Hanmar, a former
PM source who was terminated as a militated
on 20 March 1964, contacted INS new legal
FRF on 3 Junia 5.

Esquinnstatt he had word letter
from a friend in Paris way home
to meet w/ Albert Plound who had a
message from cubela who wanted it delived
to C/H

Mange - Cubela in a position to kill Aut
& would Clar us out be willing to support them.
If "yes", then details on what he needed-

SECRET $10,000
Cubela had wanted money in Paris
on / Feb 65. Travel down & upset-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

16 Feb 65 Saucy gave hinton.
0002290 Tepelud 7:00 in NYC.

23 June 1965 SECRET headquarters sent cable
Henunty empat. & Cheverny proof that endive
AmArMa, group ensure, tenuto ASAP
1 March 66 - Cubela & Bain arrested for
activities w/ CIA

Jose Luis Gongally ballaneta, Albuts Alex Romany,
Juan Alsina Navarro. Confused
Also appeary - Guillemo Cunhill
Abrary, Hiyel Hermes Udy

Gongaly ballaneta's alertness in spain
enfurth by (Jame cover offered)
into U.S. Embassy in Melded.
Cubela meets w/ Arteme in spain
in Feb. 1965.

Arsenal sent fallego to us to get
telescopis sight & silencer. Delivered to
Blanco Romany who delivers it to
Gonzaly callaneta. Then to cubela the
day before he left Maded.
Seyd in cubelas undere aure
Tasco telescopic sight, FAL reflet,
9 March 66

Castro sents personal letter that
death sentence not be aspd.
10 March 66

Cubela testimony:
"Silence didn't death, I think that SECRET
away because it was burning my hands"

2/N


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

I spoke to Fedelen James, He opened
the um is SECRET I hit not have
the courgete tell him
(Connect/
Trial merdive confund to pay to
Europe in lato 64 & 05 fonct
w/ Arteme. No menfin je Machrel the
NN 15 Unket WI. Agros,
No hint of poison pen Nov 63.

*Speculate*

If I of fulll Abfalls waull pum come out,
Merung. pragim pudiat eitt some in owner luide.

2 lugh und Special Group (Augins/
supermectin is August laz (probey one disced by Pearsend
whine lustro Statt! Dean Rush, Aliyer Golman, & drin
arranty Murten, Rechart fortwer, Roft Hurwitch
descunde Whit une
Maxwell Taylor, Me ferge Bundy (RFkalsent)
Defuse
McNanan, Olpatate, tematger, Hansdale
CIA- McCani Harry
USIA-Plward Murri, Donald Wilson
Sey - themas Perott
Parrotts nots 1/4 mutnannки
bet Media & Day cuнии метаправи
rainy it & Manon CMmty.
No come raind vapens Melanna
"Mama agree"
Jonsdule moto mema on 13 Augrot
to Hamy, Hurwitch, Huis, o Wilom wich


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

# SECRET

Probay Persens neo re a high-level.

Melty was 10 Ruptur

O'connel intround Mahin in May at • wrote a report.

1- Maker hud Magmom Pre

2- Never heart of lare IT fom Renelli

C002293 of arge

3. Roselle stured to Morgan of freenspun

4- Tahir suspects all of curst of May a

5- Roselle dimity pears; Morgenenn Vegas vants in drces"

f- borrism, Mngan Roseth in Vegas in Macch. In fruch w/ Roselli, so was Morgen

It in Our impruun that freenspin cho in volof. こ in Etto conversation.

Pain't fernger to Roselli on socury info eved to comping morgan as Peami source.

Es Rost Malin e oför - thuong nin DA pillets

Sunner of or - Parwals, Maher, Roselli shed inch & was said he told Reselli with winedelt he in fond RFK Ru Confnbun. imidose of the whyt Remedy ghese.

Prvisas stry seems to us on ref Could be Hory if ref / souse Probay fum I sources.

State Dept melting + mot oguntin so Reselli chief suspect.

DEORET

Infura: Roselli denly for much s Morgen Aunty & tally sa newspaper frnd (engen


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

SECRET

Larusdale mino arged drafting gepers
for vaudes subjects related to Cuban
operation. A portion excused from C/A
copy of memo was "includy elencator
of Madun's, Larusdale repeatedly held to
raise assarmate of wito w/ Hary over
mut several weeks but Hary deduch
At hart 5 people in Larusdale office
C002252 hum Motors unfuntin
mission is part of ot.

30 July 1964
303 Committee met in Sefurth Room
of White House.
McBinge Bundy, Varia, Meline, Thomas
Hughn & Des. Fitzgerald for a discunn
of Cuba

Peter Jerny as secy,
10 June 64 meno from DD/P to Don
re Mafia plot to annaret testa.
Price was 150,000 w/ 10,000 eyes.
Cuban exile: Jose Mario "Peping Bosch,
Bacardi Rum, to contributo $88, im. He opposed
JMWAVE for US participation. Refused outright

19 August 64
DCI Mochal to Bundy re
FBI interview w/ all participants

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

SECRET

Publicity has not nun if come:
a) Pearson doe not get used the pills & fact of State Dept, miftery
b) Cansum has not reveal folds use; C/A should be prumeerly derglyd when he does;
c) Puerto Rican in custody will be deported.

Pearson stay in check is detail found
auf in China to the 3 mon kam,

Got put in it best light – that there is no
ulfurer mitive in speeddy the story.

p 127. We do not know that carteway
rilk to an, nor we do know
that there were such pills agent Antw
Unhappy, it now appiles that un
may the lure this. Wth folen

$129. We constant Tres in pollen Targa, & mall in
No inten ve bay wounds
Sony come buck in town. Moe For

Phum would have croquentions wat happy
in Mis CIA; Erneam joben he was pistet
(
already done it when the war unity
um in 1963, India aspetto be dependent on
is Ceasan with Magnum,

p. 131, Sguuch - 5 May 1967
Commenta Roo ha mera A desert


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

SECRET 0002295

Tab A
21 July 75 memo
Santos Traffic

4. ST delivered poison pills to agent who
   had access to castro

When this attempt failed, TS supported
another candidate (cancelled re B&P)

- Maken family contact through w/ office of Security

- Roselli convictions

Nov 1967 - Illegal entry
Dec 68 - French Club

Senate Staff 7-8 June 1975
Ad Hoc Staff
No 838-75
9 June 75

4. Regent to Maxwell Taylor make

Dick Bissell 0ns-10 Dec 1971 DDO

(maybe on continuing the action capability)

5. Who is Torvella (yet another
   (alleged castro assassin) DDO

6. - WIROGUE operated aliases?

- Who was WIZARD (4) (John Stein's memo)

- 2 young officers who rotated WIROGUE DDO

- want Talhad John Stein o see WIROGUE file
  by Walt Elder

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

Missing

Meno
July. Wm K. Hary 5 May 1967

0002296

1. Bill Harvey contacted Papich to report to Papich some contact he had wi "gangster" and offer his coup to PSD. He expanded to Papich.

16 May 67

Tab B

Attentur Edmund Cohen 7 April 57
Fin Gambero
Re Dade Co.
Morgan associated w/ Agency circa 1951 as a lawyer "cut out" in matters of interest to DDO.

Stuart Piergent Morgan
DTOB 28 May 1913 St Louir

Richard Scilly Cain
MCA- Richard Scalgette SS 557-22-333
1969 Texarkana, Tex (Reg. No. 17169-TT)

In May 1964 Bolden refused to testify before Warren Com. on advice of counsel George Howard.

Chicago American for 26 Nov. 1963 in column Daly Diary of Maggie Daly - rumor that assassination planned upon trip of JFK to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

SECRET

I septissin of Life

-Garrison a guist of Mario Mauno, a huchmon of Marcells, at for leynhan bann denied innetje of Maunis emect to Marcells.

TO Chey SRS
July. Cam 9 Oct 1947

Info re merfering y Fair Play under Richard Crilley ($ 346 116)
Source of info on Gullermo WSCOBAR who was inl of Horace Speeds (SAS) leads obtend fun Ralp PEREZ (44426 Speed #C199499)

WSCObar recruty Cibarus for Cenunt Paintly qu Cluego

0002297

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

File

7 Hec 1710 DCI for Dos of Secuf
Riselli, Joling

9. Arynt 1976 SECRET
   Blind miniat Sally! Jolly Rodi
   0002298

Tab B o c
Additul imp si Troff, Results, o
broncen contained in mestrual periony
illand for uried re Sturgis.

21 May 1975 Mens & Brechenidje
ru. Arthur Ballitte Fried Hur mist

1. 12. Jan 194 mahuitbed FB The
       recennald Dußris so ant tatty when
       be win deschise

2. A Hay is Junien confelden ger a
   13 March 1901 riport.

3. 22 Majal. FORP mimo ie cuferen
   w/ Cob Fawaits who said he empected.
   Mahen in fall of 1900 for use as a tour
   for virustua, Havivre gave any inten
   to Mahen he would attitasoulile sever
   clandestenic efforts on Cute,

10. Jan 1974.
    Menis: chef urinen Hemptive Deven
    Suby Salvatore beansinny Richard lain.
    Se lucago Tribune redes of 28 and 31
    Dec. 1973
    Richard S. Cain #272141

DIB och 1931 in Chiego


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

Left race spent in 1960; Hocurato
Lahnatur.
a fot fuum

CIA confurts
SECRET 0002299

A. Fall 1960
Cain omifactt entert w/ Chuajo offre
roolikud info on Cuban sich grouper m
Cheajo area.

B. Junei ul
Contuotd Lohman of. Allago Fold ofhee
re a Mr. trougassly whew was pegos w/
gundit of Penenn sowiertatorun.

A. Sumurs 4!
Chen met in Mystro cefly Astyn
idinfity purpose untnin

D. Oct 1941.
Cain wrote to Lohman fom Poranm
offly his seevies.

E. April 1102
Cain maher unamad visit to Aguy
ups. Wonion Scotty: Waren Dean in Mapestory
say he hadar moestate agacy w/
Rancher in Chiegs LA which the und to
provide training to Mutsen bort Agents

F. 4 June 2
Deported form mytes for locall urdes
hars buckler imperistya meyeon offlcial
wirting

G. 19. Augut 43.
met in chicong as Lohr Store Deure like
at
andrer And & Deliphs Aut y Hnace Speed WH
Doo staf offlers Cly of Chingo DCD offhee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

SECRET 0002300

He would like to work overseas for CIA

Cain worked for Cook & Schaff to be in contact with Cubans in Chicago area & would provide info on whatever activities of Cubans, especially Packiris Sierra.

H. 26-38 Aug 1963

Cain only one the Student Directory,
a Cuban exile group in Miami

- Miro Cordoyos infest in purchasing arms.

2 Sept 63 J. DRE people who had quelled arms. Osarie Spudea Washington Anago told Cain to get out of the picture

K. 1967.

FBI investigating Cain's name w/ that & resumed CIA server contact.

L. 15 April 1972

Cain returned to Chicago from Mexico City; then disappeared 1 May 1972. saying he was going to Latin America. Involved in illegal arms deals (confidential) on various occasions stated he was CIA

M. 16 May 1972

FBI agent in Mexico City worked Mexico City Station for places on Cain

Eastern Airlines plot ed. Cain as skyjacker who fled from Honduran. 5 May 177-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

SECRET 0002301

27 Nov 63
By Robt B. P. Lohiman

1. Fair Play for Cuba Committee in Feb-63. met at 987 S. Spaulding Chicago.
   ander ductors of michell crily, Serg
   Chicago chapter. Assassination of fun, ducend
3. LHO guarded rifle in March 1963
   Shuffs office had not interdd LHO
   at fet milthy but sting suspicion he
   was in Chicks in spil 1963 & repente
   for firing the officer of UPI
4. Shuiff Olgehnic din like FBI so
   hed "officially" and the p info on
   Fair Ally for Cuba ?, If they developf
   anything diferite they would gestay ufum FBI

Could not read ! "that caufint 963
The Cucome frohaver aguatuimus.
for Far Pay

15. Auguel a.]
    Sandy Smith Chicago sun timer
    folling up a lead that he call elt
    re report ouncer wned to get mayber fur cha
    but no info of other

Sai's he did not show who to Ed futhman
lut to somem in futhman's office puttis


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

SECRET

Buchenrige Memo to Dadi of request.

1. Pusus in sect H of paiguh 3 is contained in over 50 volumes of material.
2. Sectm B lists 3 Anucen afgen. Contact is minimal
3. Quater in Sectm C. B1 is Arteme. Also used by Mafiai in us to operation.

Detecteres have already inferened & cound who is retired.

Tab C

1. Ramon Don Festervez Dominguey (shortey) DOB 2 May or 5 Feb 1936
2. Rolando Masferrer Rojas Smily DOB 12 Jun 1948
3. Luciano Nieves (shortyl)
4. Jose De La Tormento (shortyl)
5. Jose Quintana DOB 3 Oct 45

   *note:* if a nephew of mayer to Rochell
6. Gaopun Antonis Cortings DOB 10 Jan 40
7. Manuel Arteme

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

TABD

SECRET 0002303

14 March 1974

Meeting of Terry Lenyner.

Frank O'Mally referred Hunt to
Bob Mullen of the Mullen Group.

- O'Mally knew Hughes as a client of
  Mullen; this information picked up ini
  cause of a candid relationship between
  O'Mally & Mullen in early 60's in connection
  with Free Cuba committee.

Hunt & Mullen met in Paris during
Marchael Plan

- When Mullen decided to sever Hunt,
  possible impact on cover placements around
  Amsterdam.

- Hunt approached O'Mally for an
  individual hearing under a subsequent meeting date

- Thomas C. Amato apparently referred for...

- Houston

- Fauf az intervened w/ Farrell of
  INS re possible deportation of Granicens

- auf people who knew well E. Howard,
  Osborn, Angleton, Rocca, & Houston

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

# 1977 Report

SECRET 0002304

## AMTRUNK

Designed to identify other use suspected gunnel in armed forces in Cuba.

Buf '63, Nestor Antonio Moreno Lopey & Enreguie Cayards Robera developed temundo Plan & Everthind Castro-

Moreno defects in April 1961 & asc. wi Jorge Volsky., Cuban citizen of Polish origer. Presently USSE & then in Polish Ar Face indir British Chund. Mameda Cubans audini Miami May al.

Volsky centers Tad Syule & meet ruth.

may/63 bordwin & Herwitch (Steto). CIA designs plan to Miami Staden out is brenn an AMTRUNK

Nevlie proposed rey far & ly Sept 63 had 3 sources induly buin

Moreno in Oct 63 was removed for AMTRUNK dulto intercutor. He was guy to appeal & JFK then Volskys & gula.

Had some contacts but no rial action capability; In '65 burn & Prag auntd.

Sguler Volsky both Polish & met in Cuba on 195-60

SECRET

Jose Ricardo RABEL Nuney suspected agent was defuted Picto Joind AMTRUNK; refund to cutaen her m


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

SECRET
0002305

x in 65 to exfiltrato his fanily. Arrested
I given 38 yes. Alt feed in 67.

Hccusateur RABEZ a Cuban agent
as early as July 1963.

AMTRUNK might have been an ingenun
Cuban plen from the begining. Ouf repon was
laging caches & some infels xes pater.

MA.
NY Dally Nine 20-25 Apel 1975 ly Pal Meskel.
- quotes Sturgis on assassuation atttigts
  includly using guen chita to bant Castro I
  venuft hum to work w/ the embrisig/us/

Stinges id of Dita, quor to its denture
ly extuned investgates, miser quien as it weet diben

Office of Secunt moto mmos in 1975
noting connection beton Sturger & Rothen in 1960
citing FBP reports.
(made in conjuration w/ Daily Wins stren)

Giancana in FBI mimo. 18 Oct 1960
indicated he had met w/ assassin-to-be.
& pils in Castros fond or lint.

Since CIA gille not astel Fet ctal,
seems that mot had their son plan
SECRET
-Loreng luons Sturgis und her on 1960


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

V'mona

FBD 21 Dec 1160
- mos support for xille

FBD 18 Jan 1961
V. ucary some of that support

Sturgis could have loved of Inter
role offe. Onto settled in Mani in 1965

FBD reput
14 Augut 1964 would a statement ly a
person pailed in cute wy Traff

Other Proposals

1. May 1975
   Cuban exill who came to be a
   contrast employee statt tout in Feb 1961 be
   was given a rifles a men so well fro.
   Tried to inter Cuba 3 tumis & full

2. May 1977 Andum colunin u
   Antonio Vecians

On 3 occascus ( Dec 1900, July 62, Mpulaca
he proposed to C/H. the assanteng Castro
In 1970 upont be made a proposals
an ALD emplice at on wusers fost

5 Agent Messages in 1961.

1. 3 of messages involved same group of agents.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

so proby same plen. 0002308

1. 27 March 19641 AMBRONE 15
   Plan to sabotaje ellific compuy on Havamar hit Castro at Sports Palace

2. 29 March 1964/
   same eda with offimetre
   Anime on 30 Much but no commurofen ars armnaten

3. 5. Apirt 61.
      on ains for 50 min, would fuz
      9 Apul but needd milltag aid-

a) AMARONE infiltuld several times
• fintlf executed 38 Augut er affu may ur avent. Repitel en vere ender in was CIA, & not mentul in Mcorren Bortt

b) AMCOAX!! both gusons un

c) AMPUG!! fouch WI AMBRMC

d) AMPANIC!? I mentind in Mebevere proti, Doun 38yr sentuceri

All 3 people sentied quer to byp-r none had assassination missim. Only AMBROM menind: Thet!

06 24

4. 4 Juniel [Moratori of Italien Baby]
   lained he hed plans fre moam win 30 days affe Belly Fidel.
   Reply was that info was untrues (Moratori) centrum,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

SECRET

5. 3 May 61 0002309

- form a member of Revolutionary
  Recruy movement saying they would pys
  biel Fidel body"

- Reply was "Lay low"

- Maybe Ampus/

AMLASH

Rejects notion that AMLASH a Cuban agent.
No contact between August 1942 and
Sept 1963

- 7 Sept 69 Sept cables indicate that
  AMLASH is a "spoiled brat"; hopeless as intell
  pen former: but approach in Chey consperator.
  allowed to recruit his own cohorts."

Book V leaves inference that Costros
speechto Den Horker offr AML At leak
Semys Finding list CIA had not proggod anything at that
Jemu odm mat until 30463

Nov 19,63 ATLASH told CIA officer
he was refusing to Cuba. On 20 Nov
he was reported as delay until Fitplamies
"if something intensity" MILREL

P 26 SSC Fond Rpt. SECRET

On 24 Novi Musico Station responded to a
Headquarters request for names of known
contacts of curtain Smit personnel in Merica


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

SECRET 0002310

Puigne went to deterimes significance &
LHOS contact w/ Stras
AMLASH // name was excluded.

But in reference to contact between a member of the Soviet embassy & a Cuban cultural attache. NOT a report of a contact between AMLASH // and the soviet.

"A" role - Clearly did not know of AMLASH 1963 association w/ CIA

Table E.

24 Nov 63 Subj. Cuban Precander policy
Assassinater of Pres Kennedy.

28 Nov 1963. D/R 85657 (C/WH/3)
John Wilson-Hudson

29 Nov 63
Acting on H&P request, Aguy agent Alvarado be turned out to Mexican authorities.

12 Dec 1963 CSCI-3/779,048 (C/WH/3)
Subj - Wilson, Carlos John

30 Jan 1964 CSCI-3/779,814 (CI/SCG,
Subj: Jack RUBY - LHO

SECRET

20 March 1964 CSCI-3/780/612 (SR/CF/R)
Photo of individual chief resonably LHO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

SECRE!
10 June 1964 CSC1-3/781,841 (CI/R&R)
Info re Ruby

6 Oct 64. CSCI-316/101446-64
VIADUCT infommon on 9 Sept 1964
His Comments on 7 Photos Formald 900

W C Doc. 1054 Ruby & Associates.

0002311


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

June 11/1977
June 1977 D.G. Deput
SECRET
1. comunitati on pa
   0002312

The Curro of the CITH AN Are na
sus of MASA II VON VALVES CADEN dadi new sanded, and em que nem repunu of Onur Any opustit to that m SSC Finel Rest pidges to han ban los to the Waun Enguy.

2. A stattet theses of the SSC Ford Repent in t The operates of the infeling at Cr surend a negative infumen on the pulty of their supent fair WC. moeppelin It per prese

Thy should here....

Certainty.... empratu, 17

A central feature of the netewalls in the Under schat of cat had

livile it would serve pursed Armia ceput fuo. Kennedy, fou SSC Final Repel matur is clear that it out this tauty should hare van pucc and accept at the same ft 12, e gpur Hot Im WC / Eddy review of I of the aurants who propme= to fel want it might covet

vuus jhi pivocathy huy Haray

Fonal Preal pepel a peut som ger the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

SECRET
0002313
runelt of an evsluten in pecepten.
ies Provocom Aputt in 63 fem
barte cubre e USSR fun Bay of figs,
Huntetinis, Hoy noth the alley of Ers
Celen pogur,

εις

"the ss & Find Pepat has illeed to
omplissije instead to get fring
nijamt auta so requiry prification.

Revent & Agency -
Persons brew default of 1943
6.1964 opetra for


inven available. Primy reline
wave for the most puut are.
in venas.
al "The Fuer end
A has now conducted seda
revino Whey

Ha possible chain of evetne, while thyr
theoriedly called mane stoltd. the leas
ren codice ferng.
modued no ren.


"Midssenen, altho' it for produced there
for nen dries of speculation In fact, the
nevien revien some mes sumed to Neume
a fuil pucine in reppy to let
fos to the prociun Sum thay
rather than bug Doh samtys
Milly Macy
Avidnical Hayom e
assassinatim of stus
mmtimes became one of attery of the
(which fun was condu reven
Acing, Co
anil have pTVOREN CALO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 120

SECRET

Antsl

Tut E

hel Castrol luned off. The SSC, InB
Final Rent, fell into this very trap, trying to
make the AMLASH pat
fit the they for while the Ssts presented
seemed to be tailored!

He agency had if a sensitive with the
with this man since the Kennedys life,
altho the CSC Find Met-trying to prove
its thesis...has attempted to present it
effectively. Because the care is never
so offensively in the SSC Final Report,
it is treated in a separate only in the
prior paper at Tab D. The key point is that
prior to pus, temsep didn't the ultinacy
fe with AMLASH war Asked
what substance, Hall states under oath
he could stem say that there was a
contact that had not developed to au point
of an understanding.

P14.
Now me on the m
In a series of swiss by Paul Missel in
tu New York Daily Times of 20-75, 1974
i't is quoted strings in transcribing violated
Painting a Donation Custom Office, I had


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 121

0002315
SECRET

accus to the Prometers office, Sturges
said, I muni Fideli punto seculy Jun
Orta. I recruited lim to wrt with the
mbang (mudan embrujore thanu).

"He! Sturges) has claimed on a unber sy
Accasins to leve been in employee of
CHA, alts there is no vend of any such
ilationship.. He was in contact maet with with some some
fold out and meet thin chape
of the At an employees in the am
aua
with the Aging.

Perta was the autor of Mu offer of the
Samiu Minut
AR
Mminh, wach gave gave and that
would make it fornble for lum to gain
ustoo. The Ellen fouled bec
Alst his postm, and with it his ven,
in Mte Juny 1961, this was pur to deten
of the poison. gills to him in the Fet on
enry march 1961, Ortas este in the men
who over when he the refuge in the
Venerikan & mbisy in Havana os pel 1961. He
lives allied to have Acta in Boton 1904
ared settled in Malin Fel. 1965.

and me 13 June 1974

Same neus sornice percuir a perdie
Mainsay Betmen Steps and Thaptonte,
piss mentsey
meu poterien as a


gaull pather of pure 14
Jung mit timemulmin/175, niten


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 122

SECRET
0002316

a connection between Sturges and D'Oro
in 1960 concerning FBI reports.

Pursuant that Sturges reported D'Oro
had a tie in gambling and in turn
assisted D'Oro due to her "hush payoffs". One
could deduce that Sturges and D'Oro
became of their connection with the
gambling activities as well as having
contacts with the men holding the
could have known one another
gambling aggregates.

June 1976 says D'Oro knew by
Marita (married Lowry) that she acted on
behalf of Sturges in 1960 in gambling
in Jewish First Claim.

"This seems to confirm some of
Quotes -FRD memo on Brancato.
mostly a woman to build Castro with prior
to the turning of events does not fit the
time frame from D'Oro a CIA. WACO CON SOLA
had been given to various schemes.

There were no CIA policy for dealing
until February 1961. It suggests that the
synment may have been memory.

SECRET

In fact, it is possible that Vanna
already was involved in entangled


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 123

SECRET
0002317

aquatons with the ennast
when futt oppersad peer to po of prejš
in Machined to cry out the contro
OMS, the 1907 Do Henteus
Lo FWD repuls that bear on thin,
One of them, on 21 Dec. 1900, indecar
support by the cumul indurned
for some of the Cuban eller the
otter repert on 15 Jany 1921,
suggests that Vaina wis one of there
illery that support, alttho this was
not comfired.

...ts late as une by anpetto gorypter
Jolot in Minden for 155,0.

Speculaturhat wan reactivat
ir 1142
Apel nar can offer felt the
over'somitly- atrialy "Ingring."

It is posible that CIA senny
found itself involved in providiy
addin Addisoned resources ds for for in indiendut
operations that the syndeat way
Grad under noy,

In a sense CIA may have sun
piggy backing on PU nie
in addition to is makual f
owse was scoppycy an cura of oftend

Sovetin
6020


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)