# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# Folder 9

# 2B

# HSCA

TRANSMITTAL AND DOCUMENT RECEIPT

TO: Mr. Michael Goldsmith
Select Committee on Assassination
House of Representatives
3381 House Annex 2
2nd & D Street. S.W.

FROM: Office of Legislative Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Room 7 D 35
Washington, D.C. 20505
26 Jun73

THE DOCUMENTS LISTED HEREON ARE FORWARDED FOR:

| INFORMATION                                                                 | ACTION    | RETENTION                        | LOAN | CLASS. |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | -------------------------------- | ---- | ------ |
| CONTROL NUMBER                                                              | DOC. DATE | SUBJECT (Unclassified preferred) |      |        |
| Notes of Holf and Goldsmith (HSCA request (Wolf) 25 Jun 78 0001742 -0001761 | SECRET    |                                  |      |        |
| Information on 201 files HSCA request (Wolf 25 Jun 78 0001762-)0001781.     | SECRET    |                                  |      |        |

THIS COPY IS NOT
FOR RELEASE./

![Approved for release 1993]

RECEIPT

SIGNATURE (acknowledging receipt of above documents)

19570

RETURN TO OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
ROOM 7 D 35
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

1 - WHITE, RETURN COPY

2 - PINK, ADDRESSEE HOLD BACK

ATE OF RECEIPT

CRM 37728

10145-10287


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

Briefing 2/14/78

Bill Donnelly - Chief of Information Services Staff
Mike Cliffy?
Lee Coyle
Virginia Tores

Opening of 201

Operational interest - open 201
Trace would be contacted re: existing materials - open 201
Trace produces computer abstract of info., not documents. In early 60's, it produced index cards.

Info re: open 201?

Case officer - it's his judgement which determines whether if
If no intention of continuing interest, 201 may not be opened.
If it's an adm. & info. comes from a source such as FBI, CIA may not open a 201.

If this type of info. comes in, it would go into index

There are certain criteria

1) Recruitment

2) High-level Communist officials

There are some operations which are run out of headquarters, in which case, a case officer is involved.

![PRODUCTION PROHIBITED]

PEO, PH. I. - Might influence op. involvement
Pt. II - More aggressive

There should be a doc. indicating reasons why a part-person is not recruited.

There should be a reference in 1st file to document in 2nd file if there is one.

8001742

SECRET

PAGE 1 of 2
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

CIA - State Dept. integration

Central
Cover Staff

"Big leaf cover - where S.A. employees are aware that CIA emp. is in fact employed by
More integrated cover where a person would do a full-time S.A. job & also
at CIA job which is unbeknownst to rest of S.D. employees - Could be
a "deep official cover" as well as a "deep cover"

Am. citizens of most foreign country used in some manner would, as a
general rule, have a security check
If that person was an official with government agency or from military,
that org. would have to be consulted.
Probably would use that org's

PLS - Policy & Co-ord. Staff

> Would be involved in co-ord. of a project in which both the CIA's
> another org. was involved

To the extent of CIA involvement, files would be maintained. That is
not to say that other would not have more comprehensive files.
Project file

Graphics

OCR - Office of Central Registry - Reference - part of NTAC
nature are maintained there photos of ships, things of intelligence

Photos of protected persons

Photos of tourists or random groups would not be of interest

Entire Office Vouchered / Unvouchered Funds

PE h: Prescribed & Limited - refers to communications which are
compartmentalized
Opening of P&L channel of comm. is determined by one of 3 persons
- chief of PLS, ADDO, or ADO

0001744

SECRET

PAGE 3 of 20
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

This has always been true - In earlier times, it may have been restricted by ever fewer persons.
RISK communication may, in time, be downgraded; may never be destroyed.

Is it possible, in context of a CT threat, in case of our hypothetical that info. would not be compiled in a 201 file; yet, it is conceivable that many docs. could exist in the system & not be compiled into a 201 if they don't appear to be a reason for a 201.

Pseudo: false name used for purposes of communication
Crypto: Used to id. area of ops. By digraph, followed by group of letters you cannot assign a cryptonym w/out delving a 201 file

If hypo. soldier loss has gives away mil. secrets & then defects, a 201 file would not necessarily have been opened - it might be a mil. matter.
CT staff may have lead interests in defector
In early 60's, there was an interest in defectors.

Dan's hypo based on ZRRIFLE:
574 A form: request to put doc. into system
? 1997 " " " " "

In op. such as ZRRIFLE, docs may be everly F'd - might never go into system except upon determination of officer handling case.

"Sleeper agent" hypo: re 201 or 3 sleepers in Comm. China [station Here] doesnt necessarily have to know it since it is being run from Hqtrs. - from AAp to CT staff - reasonable scenario

Would a 201 be opened on sleeper?
Competing of secrecy vs. being able to keep track of sleeper

- no 201 issued - C.O. included -

Change of sleeper to Am. soldier defecting to E. Germany - report comes in of from reliable source stating that sleeper is providing info.

SECRET

0001745

PAGE 4 OF 20
COPY NO.

![illegible signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

This has always been true - In earlier times, it may have been restricted by ever fewer persons.
if communication may, in time, be downgraded; may never be destroyed.

Is it possible, in context of a CI threat, in case of our hypothetical that info. would not be compiled in a 201 file? Yes, it is conceivable that many docs. could exist in the system & not be compiled into a 201 if they doesn't appear to be a reason for a 201.

Pseudo: false name used for purposes of communication.
Crypto: used to id. area of ops. By digraph, followed by group of letters
You cannot assign a cryptonym without having a 201#

If hypo. Soldier lists has given away mil. secrets & then defecte, a 201 file would not necessarily have been opened - it might be a mil. matter.
CI staff may have had interests in defector
In early 60's, there was an interest in defectors.

Dan's hypo based on ZPRIFLE:

574 A form: request to put doc. into system
? 1997 " " " "

In op. such as ZPRIFLE docs may be overtly pd'd - might never go into system except upon determination by officer handling case.

"Sleeper agent" hypo: to sum 201 for 3 sleepers in Comm. China [Station Here]
doesn't necessarily have to know of it since it is being run from Hqtrs. - from AAP to CI staff - reasonable scenario

Would a 201 be opened on sleeper?
Competing of secrecy vs. being able to keep track of sleeper
-no 201 opened - c.o. in files.-
Change of sleeper to Am. soldier defecting to E. Germany- report comes in
Af from reliable source stating that sleeper is providing info.

SECRET

0001745

PAGE 4
COPY NO.
of 20
(1/24)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

Plans would take place in small room in CI staff.

Form must be signed by DDO - would be put into op. file on the sally.

Op file would be held at CI staff or at action desk.

Problems: Communication
: Equipment

Op. files can generally destroyed according to guidelines.

Is it possible for someone to have both a 201 file & then Personal file? yes

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

11/26/28: 70/Frattas

Records Administration - helps diffe Directorate set up records sys

- Bruce Johnson
+ George Frattas

RID - defunct designation for purt 1. Info Services Staff at handles 000 records

ODA

> [Figure: A flow chart shows ODA flowing into ISAJ and ISN. RA is in between ISAJ and ISN]

DOO has a filing sys unto itself

Any DD can call upon RA to give assistance. But DD can also design its own filing sys so long as RA's legal guidelines are followed. But RA usually is informed of how the other filing sys work.

Day to day maintenance of file is decentralized

ISS Central sys is also heart for of indiv for division (C.I. and) system.
=/or item of record value

Special materials might not go into central file. ie Special Correspondence.

.GRET

0001747

PAGE 6 of 20
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

Prescibel & Linated" onfo

- highly sensitive info - limited distri.

to certain indivs.

designction as poC is made by DRO

+ senior stiff/officer

Pol designation - deep cover agent in

hostile territory receive +br

designation.

- this would not be uncommon cases of this kind.

10 or 15 yrs ago, w/ suple sensitive

operations, this was relatively common.

* possi for something to be so sensitive

that he 201 file is assigned.

CI staff has gone over accumulation of

many yrs & is now catching up to

place names in central index.

possi to the situation where a

Pol file is to locate.

- lost, destroyed, archived.

Could open 201 file w/o giving indication

of prior assoc at CIA. This, according

to Johnson, would be impossible.

SECRET

0001748

7 of 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

Cryptogen would be in 201 file.

201- need for a continuing interest in order to open a file.

Source
sjell
adversary
KGB

Counterintelligence threat

-> 201 file would be opened wli matter of day or a wk-

assuming source is accurate.

ie on American residence given in Germany who is giving inf. to Russians.

To locate where documents were filed prior to being placed in file, refer to Contract sys under document #

If sleeper in Ger is actually pdc. in 201 file # opee # assigned to him, it is possi. that his case officer would prevent opening of a 201 file #.

-> Interagency source register exists -> avoids poss. of > 1 agency using same agent.

![page 8 of 23]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

Graphics index will not contain routine pictures of tourists or groups.

201 files will not readily contain pictures.

See next page: There is no centralization or name index.

did say not certain, but this info would not be retained for record purposes.

possil for 201 file not to contain crypt.

deepkover - these people don't have 201's in their true name.

Bob Bartow

201's are not opened in prevention.

There is no centralization of a 201 file. Local offices have working files.

Files other than 201:

subject file - particu target
project files.
policy & angustion

SECRET

![page number 5]
PAGE 9 OF 21
DATE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

Project files

SECRET

I for every project in wh.
involved, even if project is run by Agency, it is
run by another org
(i.e. DOD).

Cover staff involved in creation of
cover.

# of files involved in setting up
deep cover plates would be at least 12...
unless you allow to 000

such too deep cover programs do
exist.

There is a central listing of
cryptonyms. From this list you get
true name, then go to 201 file of
there is one.

Staff personnel
who have direction of 201's
files will include
"Name of area & purpose."

There is no hard filing sys by
true name, pseudonym, crypt, & 201.

SECRET

0001751
PAGE 10 of 22


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

There is no per Staff officer or asset filing indicating what operations/projects the Staff officer/asset was involved in.

Case file = file.
Contract in support capacities.
Agent/asset - unpand people who are controlled by CIA.
Agent or asset may be the same.
Agent. It not woally an
Bec always comfowle
Source - provider of info.
Asset - buy someone who may provide a service or info.

Name ck. process - procedure to learn what is known about a person.
-involve a ck of 201 files
If there is in file if
201 files are funilly in sequence.

Name ck, way home w/ opening of 201.
True id may be kind out of 201, it would be worked in cryptongur.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

There is a centralized filing sys by true name, pseudonym, crypt, & 201 tt. - called a true name index.

[Sec filing sys] its duel

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

REPRODUCTION
PROHIBITED

SECRET

0001703

12 of 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

Fretar
201
Subject - Countries, projects

exist for all projects that CIA is involved in.

Finance - support exists, will be a crypt file

Logistics - Automobile, clothing, supplies

Communication - cables, chronos, file on cables; microfilmed.

Security - Security file; under pruebanque.
Personnel - file on applicants, agency, employee for agents - 2 file in office of security

Overt
Covert

bring data, reports of sec.
investigation.. as signment,

Anything that be done when has, discusses ie writing a dispatch, assignments projects listed *sec file.

Medics - histories on all staffers
Some agents they can get it. psych profile

Training - agents, typists, secretaries, officers

ODP (Office of data processing) - out to projects used by agencies that are shown.

BRET, C000754 PAGE 13 OF 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

Betey Wolf

CTA Briefing - January 26, 1978

Records Admin. Branch - w/in DDA

RIA → subsumed - Info. Services Staff - only DDO

DDA

ISAS - Info. Systems Analysis Staff

Records Admin. Branch

Can be used for any level w/in any division, but anyone can design their own systems, providing they inform RAB so that they can monitor compliance.

"Family Jewels Collection":

Highly sensitive & compartimented info. tends to be diverted from central records

Guidelines for handling & maintaining secret but not for completing "bigot that" emphasis on limiting access.

LPiL

0001755

SECRET

PAGE 14 of 20
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

p.2

SECRET

"Prescribed & Rimited" Distribution (P&L): doesn't cover files but info., communications

"Sleeper" hypo: Operation could have been so sensitive as to be kept out of filing, indexing system, particularly 10-15 years ago..

May have been located out of front offices; may not have even need. 201 #'s

201 #'s: assigned files; were assigned by RID 10-15 yrs. ago

Files were not designated "P&L" but were "restricted" to confined jurisdictions.

Cryptonym assignment: part of ISS - Central Top Secret & cryptic Reference Staff

"Sleeper" would have to have a cryptonym for op. purposes. Would list cryptonym w/201 # --> no name, not in STAR system

Bob Bartove - Basis for opening a 201 file:

Some sense of "continuing interest" either as a potential source, agent, KGB official - can be either for operational or counter-intell. purposes

Could be either to consolidate several references in STAR system

Could be opened in response to prior reference - Ex.: Incredible source ref. to some suspected KGB person

201 could be opened in a matter of hrs., days or weeks if someone recognized info. of significance on part. person

"Files content listing" - supplemental listing from STAR system

Abstract system of STAR: could find prior references to a part. document.

When did system start?

sometime in 60's

SECRET 0001756

PAGE 15 of 22
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

p.3

Central Source Register

Ask Mugg for details
Interagency Source Register: in effect probably since beg. of CIA (of Intelligence Agencies) - doesn't include regular personnel - only assets - would be based on true names - would contain sensitive sources

201 files would not necessarily contain a photograph. Even if photo existed, it may not be filed in 201, but may be X-ref. to a specific desk.

Graphics collection in DDI

Ask Mugg
Indiv. desks will collect photos of persons of interest

Contains photos of terrain, etc. Not particularly interested in group pics, etc.

Listing of assets - would be maintained in a working manner at separate desks.

Ref. Mugg
DAO would be only place where there would be access to this type of listing.

By & large, no 201 files on employees unless there was an op. interest prior to employment - official Personnel File

Opening docs. of 201 files would contain refs. to clearance paper (which would be maintained in Sec. office)

Emp. under deep cover -> Staff Agent - dis files would appear under lie pseudonym.

Don't open 201's on pseudonyms, but could open one on cryptonyms.

0001757

SECRET

PAGE 16 of 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

- p.4

CRET

Only 1 copy of a 201 file; may be a working field copy

Subject files:
Project files:
Policy & mgmt.

Project file: operational mgmt. record of a given project.
A. Administration
B. Support
C. Production
201 would have info. on asset involved in project; project file's info is on operation itself.

See Gregg Operational Details.

Central list of cryptonyms - where they're registered - you can match the cryptonym with the true name. The more sensitive the asset in operation -> the more difficult it will be to get to true name.

Hard file: Official information
Soft file: includes working papers - anything of record value is soft file would be included in hard file.

Project files: where are approval, decision-making records filed?

Personnel file contains: where worked; supervisor's name; type of work done; evaluations
Does not contain specific operations in which employee was involved.

SECRET

PAGE 12 of 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

p.5

Employees

4 Case officers - intelligence officers

Contract employees

Agents: may or may not be paid; represent assets who are under their control

Asset: someone from whom they can get useful services, including

Source: Source of information

Ask Suzy PRQ: Basic Biog. info.

Way of ordering available info.

Fundamental doc. in an agent's 201 file.

Name check (=trace) process includes check of following:

STAR trace

Travel files.

Office of Security

Provisional files approval

Also do name checks with other agencies

Negative AM/LASA name trace -

Trees check list:


0001759


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

-p.6. George Fratas

Subject Files: countries, projects, misc.

201 Files : individuals

Would be a matter to maintain files on an ongoing operation originating in another agency.

Agent:

201:

Office of Security
" of Finance:
CI staff might have info.

Finance: acctgs, vouchers, receipts; will have a cryptonym file

Logistics: support-autos, clothing, etc. necessary to run operations.

Communications: cables, telegraphs.

Maintain a chrono. file of cables - on microfilm

Cables are logged with number, date, station

Security: Security files are listed under pseudonym if an agent

Regists also a " true name if an employee

Startet to eliminate 2 files - each with the same #
dual filing @ mid-'60's

Ask OSO - Would an agent ever operate under a pseudonym

(covert)
If it has pseudonym -> he is in file

True name: Biog. data, results of bckgrd. check, security violations & assignments

(covert) Pseudonym: Contains everything the person did - list where


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

p.7.

SECRET

De worked, what he did, etc.

If an agent, it would have a POA for each project the agent was involved in.

If a staff employee, it will only have a list of assignments.

Medics: Medical histories on all staffers; or agents if they can get it.
Psychological profiles.

Training: Train agents, mgrs., secys., officers. Run all training centers.

Office of Data Processing: Put together programs used by computers.

Personnel: applicants for agency employ. all agency employees.

ADO has central index which X-refs. true names, cryptonyms, pseudonyms & 201 numbers.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)