# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10455
RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 6
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95



NW 88326
DocId:32239463 Page 1

> Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
> Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10455

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 01/01/77
PAGES:7

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
KELLY, FRANCIS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

NW 88326
DocId:32239463 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Francis J. Kelly                  | March 31, 1977 |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action |
| ------------------------------- | -------------- |
| 082 24 2085                     |                |

| Employing Office or Committee      |
| ---------------------------------- |
| Select Committee on Assassinations |

Appointment
Salary Adjustment

☑ Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                |                     |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff - ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 433 of 95th Congress.
   11
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number. If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date April 4 1977
Louis Stokes, Chairman
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Select Committee on Assassinations
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration:.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

![signature] TO FO
4/7/77
21

NW 88326
Docld:32239463 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)  | Effective Date                                       |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Francis J. Kelly                   | 2-1-77                                               |
| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action                                       |
| 082-24-2085                        | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee      | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Select Committee on Assassinations | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                | $18,450.            |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff- Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 11 of 95 Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.):

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date 2-28-77 19

Henry B. Gonzalez
Chairman (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239463 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)                    | Effective Date |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Francis J. Kelly                                     | 1-3-77         |
| Employee Social Security Number                      | Type of Action |
| 082 24 2085                                          |                |
| Employing Office or Committee                        |                |
| Select Committee on Assassinations                   |                |
| Appointment                                          |                |
| Salary Adjustment                                    |                |
| Termination (At close of business on effective date) |                |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                | $19,500.            |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 11 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date 1977

Henry B. Gonzalez
Chairman (Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

NW 88326
DocId:32239463 Page 5

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)
or Ballpoint Pen). Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Francis J. Kelly                  | 1/1/77         |

| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action                                           |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| 032 24 2035                        | [x] Appointment                                          |
|                                    | [ ] Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Employing Office or Committee      | [ ] Termination (At close of business on effective date) |
| Select Committee on Assassinations |                                                          |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title       | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------------- | ------------------- |
| Director of Security | $30,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. [ ] Standing Committee: Staff [ ] Clerical or [ ] Professional.

2. [x] Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 1540 of 94th Congress.

3. [ ] Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House; complete item below.)

Position Number____________If applicable, Level________Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date December 30 1976

Thomas N. Downing, Chairman
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Select Committee on Assassinations
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code______

Monthly Annuity $________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239463 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees

FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

----------------------------------

I am not related X

I am related by the following relationship

![signature] J. Kelly

Signature of Employee 1/10/77


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

FRANCIS J. KELLY, 6621 BILLINGS DRIVE, ANNANDALE, VA 22003
PHONE: 703-354-0384

OBJECTIVE:

Security Director for a governmental, professional
or commercial organization.

SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS:

Experience and training in security, personnel,
administration, terrorism and Congressional liaison.

U.S. SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS:

Director of Security

U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE:

Assistant Director of Security

INSTRUCTOR:

National and International Security, world terrorism,
foreign relations and multi-national corporations.

CONGRESSIONAL LIAISON:

U.S. Marine Corps representative to the U.S. House
of Representatives. Maintained an office in the Rayburn House
Office Building and acted as point of contact for all members
for a period of three years 1971-1974.

SECURITY MANAGEMENT:

Served as Classified Material Control Officer for
domestic organization, itinerant instructional teams and over-
seas installations, Served as Provost Marshal, Security Officer,
Investigating Officer for major domestic and overseas nuclear
and non-nuclear installations. Initiated security control
procedures and supervised worldwide administrative and opera-
tional security measures for classified material.

MANAGEMENT TRAINING AND PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION:

Supervised world wide administrative and operational
performance of 15 separate areas of responsibility. Developed,
directed and conducted formal security training programs.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# EDUCATION:

Fordham University, Economics, B.S. 1955.

George Washington University, Business Administration and Management Courses, 1966-1968.

Command and Staff College, Quantico, Virginia, 1969-1970.

Foreign Affairs Executive Seminar, Department of State, 1975.

# PERSONAL DATA:

Married, two children (ages 13 and 7), age 44, voluntarily completed military service as a Lieutenant Colonel, U.S. Marine Corps.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)