# SECRET

Betsy Palmer
May 1, 1978

Cable Traffic, Mexico City/Director
October 1963

# 72527 to MEXI from DIR dated 10/1/63

1.  Basic Hdqtrs position -- assist any responsible anti-Castro group. JURE qualifies. L/2 can give covert assistance but not jeopardize his ops utility. Recommend Lanier contact be maintained.

2.  Julio Lanier Hevia one of original members Pro-Unidad Cubana en Exilio formed February 1962.

3.  Manolo Ray and Ernesto Betancourt (MEXI 6255) of ELC have had dealings in past and jointly held discussions with U.S. govt. on Cuban problems. Possible therefore Lanier and Betancourt approaches related.

# 79557 to MEXI from DIR, dated 31 October 1963

1.  Do not wish MEXI station intervene wit Mexi foreign minister behalf JURE reps as this would obviously establish official U.S. support JURE. Hdqtrs not aware Liftamil2 has foreign minister contact but if he can assist on visa problem no objection. Might be useful L/2 make pretense of helping in order appear cooperative to Lanier.

2.  Angel Luis Guiu Figueredo was chief military operations MRP in Cuba until took asylum May 1961. WAVE asset mid 62 to mid 63. Rogelio Cisneros Diaz is member JURE Executive Board and former national coordinator MRP in Cuba.

# 6455 to DIR from MEXI, dated 9 October 1963

1.  JURE rep in Mexico, Julio Lanier Hevia, told Liſtamil2 that long-range seaplane lined up for use against Cuban soil. Currently used commercially haul shellfish. Based near Tampico. Two JURE leaders coming Mexico soon to inspect it. L/2 will try elicit more details.

c/s Comment: Requested timely reporting re any air strikes being planned or mounted against Cuba by anyone.

Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, 1963 - Joaquin Hernandez Armas

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

SERGIO ARCACHA SMITH
September 14, 1965

Betsy palmer
11/10/6/5

I Loose Documents

Reply to the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization Service from DD/P stating: Reference is made to the request dated 23 August 1965 concerning Subject (File No. AL 055 004 TC) The files contain no pertinent additional information to that previously forwarded to the FBI in CScl-3/764,414 dated 30 March 1961, subject: Friends of Democratic Cuba

In yellow manila envelope: Letter to agency dated 23 August 1965 referred to above.

II 201-835474 (Personality File Action Request) June 25, 1968

Attended college in Havana
A graduate of Columbia University Law School
Served in Cuban Diplomatic Service before Castro
New Orleans delegate of Frente Revolucionaria Democratico in 1960
Additional info in File 100-300-017

June 9, 1967 Memo for Record

Reference: Brief Comments re: FBI Report, DBB 78940 of 25 April 1967

States: Other sources have stated that Gordon Novel and Arcacha Smith have "marquie" letters granting them immunity and are allegedly employed by CIA.

Garrison's investigation started when Everett Gordon Schaeffer (phonetic) took a deposition from David Ferrie in which Ferrie admitted knowing Lee Harvey Oswald.

November 13, 1975 (outgoing message: on Smith for Customs.
DPOB 1923, Cuba. Lawyer: FBI has further information on him.

> ![signature]
> blush
> to be
> consisit
> ![signature]
> 180-10145-
> 10295
> ![signature]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

Sergio Arcacha Smith
Page 2
Betsy Palmer

Third Agency Deletions

1.  FBI document (DBC-00999) dated 21 Feb. 1967, Classification: not given
    Subject: *Assination* Assassination/JFK Nov. 22, 1963, Dallas, Tex
    File - not given.

2.  FBI document (DBB 78198) dated 30 March 1967, Classification: not given
    Subject: Assassination/JFK Nov. 22, 1963 Dallas, Tex.
    FBI File#: (S) 62-10960 (Bureau)

3.  FBI document, DBB-77295, dated April 10, 1967
    Classification: not given
    Subject: Assassination/JFK, Nov. 22, 1963 Dallas, Texas
    FBI File: Not given

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

Betsy Palmer
May 1, 1978

SERGIO ARCACHA SMITH - Office of Security File Review 11110617
April 28, 1978

1. Search Request on 4/6/67

2. Report deleted, dated 7/19/61 - Third Party Information

3. Sergio visits survivors of Cuban exile infiltration of U.S. who landed in New Orleans and were hospitalized because of their weakened condition. He tried to see them on 3 May 1961 but entrance to the hospital was denied until his bona fides could be established. Visited them on 10 May 1961. Arcacha then head of New Orleans chapter of CRC.

4. Washington Start article, dated 1 April 1967 on Garrison proble - warrent issued for Arcacha's arrest on charges of conspiring to burglarize munitions bunker in 1961 with Gordon Novel.

5. Bio memo undated. Sergio Arcacha Smith one of promoters of Friends of Democratic Cuba in New Orleans, 6 January 1961. Investigation conducted by a reliable Miami Station asset concluded that FRC organized for personal gain.

6. FBI memo on FRD, 1/18/61, New Orleans, deleted.

7. Memo dated 31 May 1967 by Ramond G. Rocca
   Subject: Garrison and the Kennedy Assassination - Gordon Dwane Novel

   A. Summary - Novel has both claimed and denied CIA affiliation -- a thorough check of CTA records shows no affiliation. It is possible that NBC is supporting Novel to get a large audience for expose of Garrison. Novel may have exaggerated his presumed relationship with Sergio Arcacha Smith who also is not CIA affiliated.

   B. Novel is mysterious -- little information -- 29 year old former owner of bar in French Quarter and an electronics expert.

   C. In Columbus, Ohio, Novel is free on $10,000 bond - living in a rent-free apartment and drives a car with dealer tags. Rocca questions where money is coming from.

   D. Novel in McLena, Virginia 25-26 March 1967. Given a polygraph by Lloyd Furr. Furr and Richard L. Bast operate firm Redex -- sell audio and counter audio devices..

   E. CIA finds no evidence of ever having an Evergreen Advertising Agency which Novel claims he worked for and was CIA front.

   F. Records show CIA never recruited or paid Arcacha directly but since he was associated with FRD in New Orleans, which was created with CIA assistance, guidance anf financial support may have been given him through the Miami FRD circa May 1960.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

Betsy Palmer
Page 2
Office of Security/Sergio Arcacha Smith

8. Memo dated 28 Septembar 1967 from Donavan E. Pratt
   Subject: Garrison Investigation - Queries from Justice Department

Questions prepared by Deputy Assistant Attorney General/ Criminal Division.

A. During 1948-56 period of his association with CTA, what
services did Clay Shaw perform for agency?

(Shaw submitted information on international trade which was i
incorporated into 8 reports -- East German directory of firms
engated in such trade; a Czechoslovakian Trade Exhibit; foreign
exchange problems in Peru, etc.

B. What was his remuneration? DCS has to supply this information.

C. What were his contacts:

(Contacted by DCS representative in New Orleans seven times 1949,
twice 1950, five times 1951, nine times 1952, once 1953, twice 1954,
twice 1955 and twice 1956.

C. What was reason for cessation of relationship? Files dont'
answer - DCS must furnish answer.

Questions about Sergio Arcacha Smith same memo.

A. What was his exact relationship with Agency? Never a direct
one. Miami FRD headquarters may have mentioned CIA sponsorship to him.

B. What was Agency interest in and support of FRD? Answered
above. In the CRC? Had direct access to and support of White House and CIA.

C. CIA interest/support of Crusade to Free Cuba Committee?
No record - wheck with WH/COG

Questions about Gordon Novel same memo. NO CIA connection with Novel or
his attorney, Steven Plotkin or his former business partner Rancier Blaise
Ehlinger.

Questions about Jack Ruby No CIA relationship or file.
David Ferrie No CIA relationship
Richard Rudolph Davis No CIA relationship
Alvin Beaufouef No CIA relationship
Guy Banister or Hugh Ward no CIA relationship
White Russians no - see pp. 716-23 W Report
De Mohrenschildt no

Is CIA tapping Garrison's phone no

Marine training site at Atsugi was removed from the U-2 area to which the
Marines did not have access.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Files - Manuel Ray y Rivero

DCD Documents 11110813

May 2, 1978

1.  Memo dated 24 Oct 1962 to Chief, Contact Division, from Chief, San
    Francisco Office

Subject: Suitability of Manuel Ray and Miro Cardona for Important
Roles in a Possible New Cuban Government

Information received from Dr. Robert North Professor of Political Science
at Stanford University anu long-time source of exceptional value. North
visited in Miami and contacted about 25 former Castro supporters representing
a broad political gamut. Dr. North got the impression from many of the
Cubans that they suspectea Ray of being a "possible Communist sleeper".
North Treluctant to pass along this information, because accusations were
very broad.

2.  Infomation report dated 16 July 1962 and Earlier

Source: Cuban National (Alien File A-12570921) who asked for an
interview on occasion of first contact with CIA.

Cannot vouch for his bona fides. Had credential indicating membership in
branch of revolutionary army's intelligence service, now in exile in U.S.
and maintaing connections with colleagues in that country.

A friend of his reports plans to assassinate top Castro leadership in Cuba.
To be done by poison "Clostridium Botulinum" which is strong, odorless,
and tasteless. Takes about 12 days to kill. About 5cc would do the job.
Waiting for next visit of major delegation from a Communist country
dinner in honor of the occasion should bring together most of the important
members of the regime and that is when the attempt will be made.

2.  Cable dated Oct. 3, 1961 WA CITE NYOR 4902 Support (Travis) info L/A

Branch from Daniels. Source is Ernesto Dezaldo Cuban lawyer now
living in New York City. Stated the MRP in Havana is far less radical than
under the leadership of Ray, who has been completely discredited in recent
months. Primary purpose today is (a) assassination of top leaders in Castro
regime and (B) sabotage of important industrial and government installations
in Havana. Strength of MRP in Havana estimated to exceed 1,000 succesS
measured more in terms of fund raising ability and blowing up of buildings.

3.  Information dated June 4, 1961, Subject: Underground Student Leader
    Comments on Post-invasion Cuba. Reporting officer talked with
    ISIDRO BORJA, on the leaders of DRE. Borja says top DRE members in jail
    or in a friendly embassy in Havana but said new leaders have been selected
    and will resume sabotage activities shortly. Thought the underground could
    restore tension in Cuba in 3-4 months. However, said outside help needed
    to get rid of Castro. Claimed that prior to invasion, is was possible to
    buy almost anything in Cuba from Castro officials they were tainted by
    corruption. Since Castro's victory at Bay of Pigs, his popular support is
    estimated to be around 30-85%. Most support is out of fear because the
    people believe he will be in power permanently. Borja said DRE outside of
    Cuba working hard for release of former leader, Alberto Muller from prison.

SECRET

5/BR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

DCD Documents - Manuel Ray y Rivero
Page 2

1111082) 
4. Memo to Acting Chief, Contact Division dtd 20 May 1964
   From: Chief, Miami Field Office
   Subject: Alleged "New York Times" Publicity Build-up for Manolo Ray

Hal Hendrix, Scripps-Howard L.A. correspondent believes NY Times publicity
buildup for Ray in full swing. Tad Szulc reporting Ray's war movements from
Miami. Also with Szulc is close friend, Henry Raymont of the Times.
Hendrix said Times playing up Ray while downplaying Artime and Gutierrez
Menoyo. Think's Times exaggerating Ray's plans to take teams of highly
trained guerrillas into Cuba, and that Ray's "war" is little more than an
MGM-type New York Times production so far.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I - VIII

11110623

March 29, 1978

Volume I Undated to September 1960

1. Cable suggests that an offer of financial assistance to Ray's wife and children from CIA rather than through the FRD may pay large future dividends. Family to arrive circa September 1960.

2. Cable to Director

From: MASH

19 September 1960

Increasing suspicion RAUL CHIBAS a Castro plant. Since exfiltration by KAPPES, CHIBAS has laid low but back in picture as representative of RAY. Common knowledge that CHIBAS brought KAPPES out of Cuba, but should be noted that KAPPES has since been in and out of Cuba three times with no apparent difficulties.

CHIBAS' sources of information:

Mason in U. S. government

Manuel de Jesus and Bender as FRD representatives

Nino Diaz as Alianza representative

Don Hogan Kappes as Alberto Fernandex representative.

This should get a good picture of the U.S. anti-Castro activities.

3. Summer 1960. Ray very actively recruited to become FRD member. CIA considered him an important political asset. RAUL CHIBAS, Ray's assistant, spoke for him with U.S. authorities. Urged strong organization inside Cuba before outside help could be effective. CHIBAS meets with Bender 9/7/60, says he is in favor of FRD but completely committed to Ray and would check with him.

4. 27 September 1960.

Memo to Western Hemisphere/4 Chief

From: Rudolph E. Gomez, Acting Chief, WH

Subject: Approval from State to Include Manuel Ray Rivero in the FRD Complex

At a 20 September 1960 meeting, Ray's name was suggested for inclusion in FRD and State desired to look further into his background. Ray was discussed again on 9/27/60 with Mr. Divine who further conferred with Ambassador Mallory same day and Mallory approved Ray's inclusion.

5. September 29, 1960 cable from MASH to WH9 indicates MASH somewhat doubtful about Ray's feelings toward U.S. and continued dealings with this group needs further policy consideration.

*   There is a restricted CI/OA folder on Ray of this 201 file held under C#85514
*   Ask about -- documents sent for microfilming in July 7, 1967.

UGFA 12222 3 November 1963 201 239298

6. Ray granted Provisional Operation Approval (POA) on 25 October 1960. (form says, Green list attached 104591)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Volume I - Manuel Ray
Page 2

11110822

7. PRQ Part 2 169 085514
   Section I Contact and Development

Woodrow C. Olien met Ray October 1958 when Ray was head of Civic Resistence
Movement in Havana. Three clandestine meetings were held prior to 04
1 January 1959, attended by Olien, Wallace A. Growery, Ignacio Mendoza (MRC
member) who originally introduced Olien to Ray. After 1 January 1959, Ray
given important post in revolutionary government and Olien has seen him
only twice since, Olien poising as political officer to State Department.

Section II of PRQ states Ray is friendly to U.S., once having received
a grant for special study there. A dedicated, patriotic Cuban, opposed to
Communism but taken no active part in combatting it.

8. An undated, unaddressed letter from Antonio Gonsales Mora, Jr.
   P.S. Says: Joaquin Sanjenis appears to be a person in whom CIA has great
   confidence. Linked to Artime conspiracy. Responsible for all "inter-
   Cuban" intelligence matters. Is a "shady character" -- gangster background --
   gives impression of mental retardation. Not known as individual of any
   importance, but he is! "An inexplicable affair"

9. PRQ Part 2 (contd)
   Section VI -- Subject has definite political action potential, ia
   a pro-democratic official of government who is not in sympathy with aims
   of international Communism and who is interested in strengthening ties
   between Cuba and U. S. Probably would never consent to agent status, but
   could by persuasion and argument be encouraged to influence policies of
   his government along lines compatible with U.S. government policies.

Section XIV -- Information in PRQ Parts I and II were obtained from
file research and personal contact with subject.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I - VIII
March 29, 1978

Volume II
October 1, 1960 - November 22, 1960

As of 21 November 1960, MRP organized as follows:

Manuel Ray - Chief
Raul Chibas - Sepcial Assistant to Ray
Juan Esteves Ramires - Secretary
Ramon Barquin - Military and Intelligence matters
Cisneros - Chief of MRP in Cuba

1. 10/4/60 Cable from(London) claims that new Cuban resistance group organized under Ray and has 400-500 men in Las Villas Province. Not part of FRD but in touch with it.

2. 10/7/60 Cable from Havana. AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO has withdrawn from FRD. JUSTO CARRILLO and FELIPE PAZOS will be integrated into Ray's MRP. VARONA wishes to join, also, but Ray insists VARONA return to Cuba to do so.

3. 10/12/60 Cable to Director. RAMON BARQUIN claims CARRILLO and ARANGO are going to boycott FRD Executive Committee and sabotage its work. Barquin planning to join with Pazos, Ray, Chibas, MIRO and QUEVEDO to form a new frente and then request union with FRD. If accepted, Barquin would become military head. If Barquin does not get U.S. government support for this plan, he will return to Cuba to try to overthrow Castro and win election on an anti-Yankee platform.

4. 10/17/60 Contact report from Wallace A. Parlett
   Subject: Meeting with JUAN ESTEVEZ and JORGE BERUFF, 10/13/60
   Cubans said Ray's group will not lower themselves to answer "Fidelismo without Fidel" charge and let their actions speak for themselves. MRP is highly disciplined and feel the majority of Cuban people favor thir platform. Its leaders are interchangeable. If Ray comes out of Cuba, Chibas or Estevez could go in and take his place.

5. 10/24/60 Memo for files
   Subject: Representative of Manuel Ray to Professional Groups

ENRIQUE HIRAM GUTIERREZ Y RODRIGUEZ (dob 5/20/31, Havana) travels frequently to Puerto Rico on architectural business. Also frequently enters U. S. at Miami. Represents Ray's organization to various professional groups in Havana. Also serves as courier to Miami.

6. DRE information. 10/24/60 Cable states MULLER reported receiving letter from ANTONIO GARCIA, DRE representative in Cuba that organization is going well but needs funds and material aid. MASH asks Mueller to get details of Garcia's "groupos de accion" and details of organization. MASH gave Muller $500 for Garcia. Muller is concerned about Manolo Ray

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET Betsy Palmer

File review, Manuel Ray
Volume ii of xviii
11110624
Page 2

whom he says is gaining strength in Cuba. Says students eager to join
active group and will go to Ray if DRE can't get help soon.

7. Provisional Operational Approval granted to Ray on 10/26/60.

8. 10/26/60 Cable to Director from Havana reports Ray held MRP meeting
   on 10/23/60 and made following statements:

a. MAJOR WILLIAM MORGAN had been very helpful to MRP - responsible
for obtaining most of their weapons.

b. In four months, MRP will have 20,000 militants throughout Cuba.
Organized now in all provinces except Pinar del Rio. Invasion
could not take place for 4 months but FRD still in favor of
earlier date.

c. CARRILLO and ANGEL del CERRO have left FRD and now with MRP

MRP urging Ray to escape Cuba and they feel it is only a matter of time
until he is picked up and executed. MRP manifesto will be released this
weekend.

9. 10/28/60 Monthly payments of $400 approved for Ray's wife in
   behalf of Bender group.

10. 10/28/60 Memo for Record
    Subject: Conversation of CARRILLO and PAUL J. MANSON Chief, MASH
    Economic philosophy: When FRD first formed It was attacked by RUBIO
    PADILLA as "Fidelismo without Fidel." Now FRD saying same thing about
    MRP.

11. 11/5/60 Cable to Director from MASH
    Verona tells HUNT that he received information that Ray wanted to leave
    Cuba and was to be exfiltrated clandestinely by Bender group.

12. 11/8/60 Memo for Record -[John D. Peters]
    Subject: Contact report on meeting with ROGELIO GONZALES

Gonzales considers Ray highly dangerous because of his ambition to play
prominent role in Cuban government after overthrow of Castro. Thinks he
poises threat to Varona's authority inside Cuba. Ray appears to have
support of middle class, politicians and professionals. Should Ray join
FRD, Gonzales thinks he will still operate on a unilateral basis while
seeking to supercede FRD with MRP.

13. 11/11/60 Cable to Director from JMASH
    Ray arrived Tampa morning of 11/10/60. Mash officer staying with him
    until surfacing date which depends on safe arrival from Cuba of two other
    individuals. They are the last of the HUBER MATOS escapee group known by
    Ray to still be hiding in Cuba.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review Of Manuel Ray
Volume ii of xviii
11110625
Page 3

14. 11/14/60 Cable to Director from MASH.
    Ray to surface at press conference scheduled for 11/16/60 in Miami.

15. 11/17/60 Cable to Director from MASH
    On 11/15/60, *Parlett* alias Bender met with Ray in complete privacy. "Unquestionably, the youthful, softspoken, unassuming, almost humbe Ray is a natural leader of highest intellect, deepest sincerity and convistion." Ray's political posture doubtful as far as U.S. government acceptance is concerned.

Explained to Ray the U.S. government's desire to have all Cuban exiles unified in their efforts. Ray says MRP does not wish to reinstate 1940 constitution. Provisional government of 30 honorable Cubans would be established and elections held 18 months thereafter. Castro laws passed at beginning of his regime to be promulgated. State would regulate private investment and utilities would be nationalized.

Ray wants to keep MRP "lean and hungry" -- each member to have specific responsibilities and feel important to revolution.

Ray asked for permission to start a fund drive in Cuba and U.S. Also asked for $10,000 by next Wednesday -- Bender made commitment.

*Parlett* believes net result of meeting was establishment of private MRP-U.S. link and door remains open for some kind of relationship with FRD. Ray agrees to discuss this with Miro Cardona. Of all the groups being supported, FRD, MRP and MRR are most significant. All Cuban groups seem to be looking to Bender group to show a preference before joining one of the above three. How long current flexibility can be maintained is problematical.

16. 11/21/60 Memo for Record
    Subject: Meeting with King and Esterline on subject of handling MRP, 11/18/60

Consensus was that Ray did not politically represent anything to cheer about. Writer felt MRP opposed to joining FRD and recognized need to control MRP and wean it away to the extent possible from its leaders. Could be done by controlling financial and military support. It was agreed in meeting with Mr. Barnes that financial and military support for MRP be channelled through FRD.

17. 11/23/60 Contact Report: Meeting with Ray and Chibas in NYC, 11/22/60
    Ray says MRP has contacts at Isle of Pines with two garrisons and can expect about 750 men to desert Castro at proper time. CAPTAIN CAPOTA is contact with Ray's group.

Ray's people also in contact with commander of prison where Huber Matos is incarcerated. Matos believes PADILLA, the prison commander, would assist

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

File review of Manuel Ray
Volume ii of xviii
Page 4

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

11110623

him in an escape. Ray interested in single operation to get military
defectors and free Matos. Wants to effect plan on 11/27/60.

Ray wants assistance from U.S. -- military information and supplies.

18. 11/24/60 Cable to Director from JMASH
    Meeting with AMCHIRP-1 on 11/23, revealed he had information that MRP in
    Havana had capabilities to blow up power plant and TV stations in Havana --
    a diversionary tactic planned to coordinate with Isle of Pines operation.
    Ray expects Isle of Pines operation support about 12/15/60.

Notation about Cable: "Operation Unity" is to create dramatic show which
will demonstrate that Manolo Ray is wrong when telling contacts in U.S.
that his group is the only one capable of action."

19. 11/24/60 Cable to Director from Havana.
    Operation Unity involves MRR, MDI, OA, 30th of November Group and MAR (not
    MAR of PEPIN RIVERO).

MAR and OA groups to blow electric cables in Regla area. MDC group, at
same time, to make assassination attempt on CARLOS RAFAEL RODRIGUEZ at
University of Havana.

20. 11/30/60 Cable to Director from Havana
    JULIO ANGEL METRE advised planning to travel to Miami 12/1/60 escorted by
    Brazilian ambassador to Panama. Accompanied by ambassador's wife. MESTRE
    will be introduced to Ray and will offer services of MDC to Ray at that
    time. Mestre says plan is approved by "DR. LUCAS" (JOSE FERNANDEZ BADUE)
    MDC coordinator in Cuba.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# SECRET
Betsy Palmer

File Review - Manuel Ray y Rivero Volume III of XVIII
March 30, 1978

December 1960 - January 1961

11110627

1. Cable 12/6/60 to Director from Gold
   Ray contacted by Weisinger) and made statement that Isle of Pine's
   operation failed in his opinion because Bender failed to forward paper
   to Havana with key to operation.

2. 12/8/60 Cable to Director from WAVE

Ray advised Wiesinger he is departing for Washington same day to visit
ERNESTA BETANCOURT of OAS and others. In New York on 12/9 to contact
Raul Chibas. Return Miami about 12/11/60.

3. 12/23/60 Cable to Director from Havana indicates Ray wishes return to
   Cuba as soon as possible and asks that OLIEN make arrangements through
   his official channel. Doesn't want Cubans in WAVE or Cuba to know of
   his return.

4. 12/22/60 Information report from U.S. citizen, free-lance writer and
   part-time sugar broker (DONALD HOGAN

Says Miro Cardona has accepted teaching position in Puerto Rico effective
early January 1961. Is disgusted with bickering among anti-Castro Cubans
and will sit on sidelines for time being. Is partivularly opposed to
Ray- program is too Marxist and Ray is an opportunist.

5. 1/16/61 Information Report from U.S. national in a U.S. governemnt
   agency. Source had contact with DR. GUILLERMO SALAZAR SANCHEZ, former
   Cuban ambassador to Switzerland and DR. SERGIO ROJAS SANTAMARINA, former
   Cuban Ambassador to United Kingdom. Salazar said he had heard from a
   reliable source that Ray was not a bona fide defector and still acting
   on behalf of Castro and is a member of the "Blue Legion". (no further
   explanation.)

Dr. Salazar mentioned group called "The Ten Unknowns" who are key figures
in making Communist policy in Latin America. (Ray not implicated as
one of these).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes 1 - XVIII (201-239298

April 6, 1978 11110623

VOLUME IV - February 1, 1961 - March 31, 1961

1.  Operation Approval granted for Ray's use as a political asset on 7 February 1961

2.  Memo to WH/4? Security, From WH/4?CI
    Subject: Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo Group
    Date: 23 February 1961

Ray pressuring Mr. Droller to have four individuals freed from McAllen
Detention Camp who belong to Gutierrez group. Ray claims they are
members of his group and have been most active against Castro regime
in Cuba. They are as follows: ASENCIO, Suarez, Lazaro
LESNIK, Menendez, Max DPOB 8 Sept 1930,
Vueltas, Las Villas
PORTA Bolanos, Gustavo
REDONDO, Gonzalez, Roger

3.  Cable to Bell, from JMWAVE
    Date: March 1, 1961

Artime advises that Ray's group opposed to banning Communist Party and
in favor of "nationalizing everything". Ray favors maintaining trade with
USSR, wants no change in present agrarian reform program.

4.  Cable to JMWAVE from Bell
    Date: March 10, 1961

INS is concerned over the increased news coverage of Ray's arrival in
U.S. and activities here. Afraid they will be confronted about Ray's
arrival (which was describad as "black" in another communication) so
JMWAVE asked to re-advise Ray that his story is that on 10 Nov 1960, he
landed somewhere on Keys in a fishing boat, made way to road where picked
up by INS patrol car, taken to WAVE area, examined, declared refugge and
released with admonition to always keep INS advised of his address.

5.  Memo to S - Dr. Berle, From: ARA - Philip W. Bonsal
    Subject: Recent Cuban Developments
    Date: March 16, 1961

Conversation with Jose Miro Cardona and Berle, reveals that Cardona has
misgivings about Ray and Pazoz and the MRP. Says Ray is bitterly anti-
American as well as probably totalitarian in his thinking. He no longer
believes Ray has any considerable support inside Cuba. Thinks Ray group
endeavoring to exercise influence in our government so as to be the major
recipient of whatever assistance can be obtained here. He is particularly
concerned about the role played by Felipe Pazos.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

Review of Manuel Ray files
Volume if of xviii
Page 2

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

11110620

6. Field Information Report
   Subject: Background, Character and Economic Concepts of Manuel Ray Rivero
   Date: 16 March 1961
   Sources: Dr. Oscar SALAS Marrero (paragraphs 1-11) Knew Ray in Cuba
   Dr. Jose ALVAREZ Diaz, former Minister of Finance under Prio (Pg 12)
   Dr. Jorge BERUFF, former president of Banco de Desarrollo
   Economico de Cuba, (pg 13)

Note: Cover note pencilled comment (The content is so biased and mixed with untruth that it would be a disservice to the intelligence community to disseminate it.

Synopsis of paragraphs 1-11. Dr. Salas says during his childhood Ray was a Protestant but today is completely atheistic. Said Ray organized the MRC against Batista and shortly after Batista's fall, MRC and 26th of July Movement fused into one, and as soon as Castro came into power, control of the organization was given to the Communists. Tells of Ray's association with Castro and that he did not resign his position when his own brother was renounced by Castro. Stated that Ray's rupture with Fidel was due to the fact that Ray opposed the idea of shooting Hubert Matos as a traitor. Ray resigned his post but said publicly that he approved and supported the Castro regime without any mental reservations. Says in Cuban clandestine circles Ray is regarded as boastful, ostentatious and deceitful. Intimate friends of Ray feel that he is a man of anti-democratic procedures, and does not like to take advice, even from members of his own movement.

Synopsis of paragraph 12. Dr. Alvarez said Ray was in favor of maintaining relations with USSR and not making Communist Party illegal. Said that although Ray withdrew all these statements when threatened with press coverage, Alvarez thinks they are representative of Ray's thinking and would try to put ideas into practive if he ever came to power. Alverez also mentioned Rays thinking on nationalization of public services, socialized medicine, nationalization of banks, etc.

Synopsis of paragraph 13. Dr. Beruff said Ray well-intentioned with no Communist tendencies. Cited a meeting at which the basic points of the MRP platform were discussed and said that since Ray was in disagreement with the others on most of the points, Dr. Felipe Pazos acted as chairman of the meeting and Ray argued his case as a simple member of the group. Out of this meeting came a declaration of 14 points, including the nationalization of the banks and public utilities.

On 9 March, Ray said that ideas attributed to him in paragraph 12 were not true and part of a "campaign against him by Mr. Pawley of the Miami City Transit Company".

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Review of Manuel Ray files
Volume if of xviii
Page 3
11110830
7. Report dated March 17, 1961, Marked Urgent

"It has been reported by a very reliable source that Manuel Ray (MRP)
is bringing as an Adviser, Professor Fiterre from Habana University -
This man Fiterre is an undisclosed Communist that has always openly admitted
and braged about being aCommunist."

8. Memorandum for the Record
   Date: 27 March 1961
   Subject: Ray accepts appointment to Council:
   Signed: Gerard Droller

Miro was able to convince Ray to join CRC. Thus, as of 27 March 1961,
Council's composition isas follows: Chairman: Miro Cardona; Board of
Directors: Varona, Hevia, Carrillo, Maceo, Ray and Artime.

9. Memorandum for the Record
   Date: 27 March 1961
   Subject: Reported Anti-MRP Rally Promoted by Aureliano Sanchez Arango
   Signed: B. E. Reishhardt

Julio Lobo reported that Sanchez is planning a rally in Miami, 29 March to
protest against the Ray/Pazos combine in the revolutionary council. Writer
says, obviously, such a rally at this time could be most damaging and some
attempt should be made to get to Sanchez to take the steam out of this
maneuver.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I - XVIII

April 6, 1978
VOLUME V April 1961 - July 1961

1. Cable from JMWAVE to Bell
   Date: April 3, 1961

Ray meets with Olien and said he was not as yet prepared to join FRO ene. Said
Miro had welshed on commitments and while willing to accept Ray into CRC,
not willing to give him any voice in the Council. Olein apptempts to i
convince Ray he was doing great disservice to Cuban people by refusing to
serve within ERC.

2. Cable to JMWAVE from Bell
   Date: April 4, 1961

"To test actual MRP capabilities inside request you inform Ray to hit
targets G, I and K during period 5-10 April. Attack target 0 including
diesel locomotive engines immediately. Will forward additional targets if
Ray shows any capability."

3. Letter to Editor (Pencilled note: Propaganda against MRP by Attime's
   replacement Jose Manuel Hernandez Puentes received from QD Date 6 Apr 61.)

"I am a Cuban who still thinks that Cuba can be rehabilitated after the fall
of Castro. For this reason many Cubans have been baffled by the list of
names now given as the saviors of Cuba for a Provisional Gova rnment. Among
these are such notorious Castro followers as: Ray, Barquin, Pazos, Rufo
Lopez Fresquet, Chibas and others whose names remind us of an era of
mourning, persecution and misery."

4. Report on Manuel Ray received from Enrique Molinet, a road and airfield
   construction engineer under Batista regime. Cover note dated 4/7/61.
   Molinet outlines his distaste for Ray, citing at the beginning his refusal
   to leave Castro even after the questionable suicide of his brother, Rene.
   After Ray was ousted from his Cabinet job, he continued to visit Castro,
   occupying a prominent position in all Castro's public appearances. Said
   that even before Castro, Ray was an active member of the Cuban Orthodox
   Party, highly infiltrated with communists. Claims that when Ray in his
   Cabinet position, indoctrinations programs were held expousing communistic
   ideals. Also while Minister of Public Works, claims he (Ray) threw out
   hundreds of employees without due cause and destroyed every successful
   contractor that existed.

5. Memorandum for the Record
   Subject: Custody of Revolutionary Council, 19-20 April 1961
   Signed: Robert F. Moroney
   Date: 24 April 1961

Relates that on 19 April 1961, President Kennedy met with the six members of
FRD's Revolutionary Council where President expressed his deep sorrow and
concern over the failure of the military effort (Bay of Pigs). Ray one of the
group.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray Files
Volume v of xviii
Page 2

6. Memorandum for the Record
   Date: 5 May 1961
   Subject: Manolo Ray - Comments on his Anti-Castro Activities
   Signed: Calvin Hicks WH/4/PM/Operations

"Ray is balieved to have accomplished pratically nothing towards the effort to overthow Castro. Instead, it seems that whenever we played with his so- called assets, we were burned. He is notorious for claiming assets or operations, several days after some other group had already set them up or claimed them. Whenever it came to producing and backing up his claims, he always came up with excuses for not producing, rather than results. He has always tended to try to take over other goups, rather than cooperate with them, and when he couldn't take them over he would "politic" against them. His actions all seemed to be directed toward making him the future power in Cuba rather than toward overthrowing Castro. It is believed that Manolo RAY is so far "left" in his thinking that he would be as dangerous (or more so in the long run) to United States interests as Castro, if he ever got to be the power in Cuba."

7. Memorandum for the Record
   Subject: Map76/4 Relations with Manolo Ray and the MRP
   Date: 2 June 1961 03
   Signed: (James A. Noel]]

In a 12 May 1961 meeting, Ray promises to write a prospectus of his plans for MRP within ten days. Not received by 2 June, but Ernesto Betancourt ois asking for financial support for MRP activities. Tracy Barnes agrees with (Noel) that no money should be given Ray until his plans are studies. Ray is asking for support separate from FRD since Ray has withdrawn from this group. Noel) further states in Memo, "---I would like to point out the security risks inherent in any arrangements with RYA-BENTANCOURT-CISNEROS trio. These fellows have had easy access to the White House and to the Department, are notorious for their 'planned leaks', will probably presume all the Department officials they deal with are privy to the arrangement, and before we know it the whole exile community will be well aware that we are providing financial and material support to the RAY group."

8. Cable to Bell from Caracas
   Date June 8, 1961
   On June 2, Venezuelas governemnt refused to issue a visa to Manolo Ray.

9. Cable to Director from Caracas, dated June 28, 1961. re: meeting with Jose R. Barbeito on 20 June in Valencia. Barbeito claims was member of MRP of Manolo Ray and took part clandestine activities Havana. Admitted was communist "many years ago" but now completely opposed to Castro and Communism.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray Files
Volume v of xviii
Page 3

11110633

10. Intelligence Report
    Date: 7-11 July 1961
    Place: San Juan, P.R.
    Source: Cuban Exile Lawyer
    Evaluation: F-6

Report transmits information concerning activities, persons visited and purpose of visit of Ray to Puerto Rico, terminating when Ray hurridely left Puerto Rico following press account that he had been removed as Coordinator of the MRP.

Source said MRP leaders in exile believe Rays dismissal due to propaganda and pressures by the CIA which brought about the impression that the obstacle to receipt of help from outside (money, arms, etc) was Ray himself and that oner Ray removed, they would receive all types of help. The exile leaders are of opinion that it was also brought about because Ray was a divisionist inasmuch as he had abandoned Cuban Democratic Revolutionary Council.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files Volumes I - XVIII

April 6, 1978
Volume VI - August 1, 1961 - June 30, 1962

1.  Cable to JMWAVE from Director
    Date: August 1, 1961

FBI conducting investigation on MRP and Ray and Director indicates he needs to know purpose of investigation to respond properly.

2.  Dispatch from Chief of Base, JMWAVE
    Date: August 4, 1961
    Subject: Debriefing of Father Bastarrica

Father Bastarrica recently arrived from Cuba as a political exile. At a luncheon meeting, he reported as follows:

MRP formed in Cuba around 26 July 1960. Organizers were Dr. Amalio Fiallo Gonzalez, Dr. Antonio Fernandez Nuevo, Reynol Gonzalez, Humberto Perez Herrera. All these men belonged to group called Accion Democratica. The name of MRP was suggested by Raul Chibas and in itself it does not constitute a party or group but rather a coalition of several small groups, which were the following:

a. The 20 May group, led by Manuel Ray
b. Accion Democratica, led by Dr. Fiallo
c. Accion Verde Olivo, led by Dr. Rufo Lopez Fresquet
d. 30 November Movement, led by David Salvador (never really joined)
e. Chibas' group with Jorge Beruff and Felipe Pazos
f. Dr. Valdez Pino, in asylum in Embassy of Peru and belonged to Accion Democratica.

Father Bastarrica's opinion of Ray is that he had no way of judging whether Ray is Communist or Marxist. Lacks quality of leadership because he does not publically hold to a definite political, social and economic ideology. He appears to agree with every person he talks to, never arguing with them or opposing them, all of which shows he has no ideology and makes him a very dangerous man. Is extremely ambitous for himself, with great desire for power.

3.  Memorandum for Chief, WH Division, dated 10 October 1961, from Warren S. Yauger, Subject: General - Cuban Matters; Specific - Manuel (Monolo) Ray
    Planning Board of Puerto Rico announced on 9 October 1961 that Ray has accepted position as consultant to that Board. Board is an important agency of Puerto Rican government, attached to the Office of the Governor. Has broad powers over economic and social planning and is active in exercising these powers. Ray to receive $12,000 per year. Ray presently in Venezuela but expected to arrive Puerto Rico within a week.

# SECRET

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files

Volume vi of xviii

Page 2

11110635

4. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated May 27, 1962 discusses front page article in Miami Herald of this date by James Buchanan entitled "Miro fades as Exile Chief: Three Latin Leaders Behing Ray". States that Ray has the backing of Gov. Monoz Marin, Pres. Romulo Betancourt and former President Jose Figueras and that Ray has taken over post with blessings of the U.S. Further states Ray's appointment as "Chief in Exile" came from underground in Cuba according to Joaquin Godoy, Provisional MRP head in Miami. Article credits Cubans in Miami with saying "new man in field" is Adolf A. Berle, Jr. who has been special asst. to State Dept. and is also member of Pres. Kennedy's special task force on Lantin America. Implication being that Berle is running new U.S. sponsored Cuban effort. Release causing furor in local Cuban colony.

Cable to JMWAVE from Director, 28 May 1962 states State Department spokesman will state story without foundation at a noon press briefing this date.

5. Listing of principal persons in Puerto Rico with the MRP

RAY, Manuel PORTELA, J. Migues

PAZOS, Felipe CARMONA, Claudio

BARQUIN, (Col) Ramon ESTEVEZ, Jeromino

MELENDEZ, Juan BERGNUS

GELAVERT ALVAREZ, Gabriel

NODAL, Rodolfo PORTELA, Sara

6. On 9 June 1961, Ray transmitts a detailed study of a general program designed to attain the liberation of Cuba. General Thesis states that MRP believes that the strongest position for representation and canalization of aspirations of the large majority of the Cuban people is offered by the set of ideas and aims of the democratic left.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I - VIII

April 24, 1978

Volume VII July 1962 - August 1962

1.  Cable dated July 2, 1962 to Director from San Juan

    Glear that Manolo Ray wooked upon with great favor by Puerto Rican government. No evidence, however, that Puerto Rican government is supporting the MRP. Believe record will show that while our past contact with Ray has not always been happy one, it always revealing of Ray's intentions.

2.  Memo for Chief, Task Force W from Alfonso Rodriguez 12 July 1962

    Subject: Manolo Ray Rivero

    "Ray has indicated to WAVE sources that whereas he is not persona grata with the Agency, he has important political connections in Washington and is thus kept informed of much of the Agency's activities. Ray's new organization is not to be military or engage in military thrusts against Cuba because military activity is presently controlled by the Agency and cannot be wrested from it at this time. Ray's new organization will cooperate with the Consejo and attempt to move in on it with the ultimate aim of taking over and dominating it."

3.  Memorandum for Chief, Task Force W from Alfonson Rodriguez 25 July 1962

    Subject: Manolo Ray Meeting in New York

    Ray sorry he joined FRD prior to April invation. Let tide of time suck him in and take him along. Obvious to him that show run in good faith but bad judgment. Ray discusses hope that JURE will be long-lasting organization in Cuba. Ray's political views are assessed as democratically oriented, and if he became ruler of Cuba, his greatest preoccupation would be with economic progress. Rodriguez says Ray is not to be under- estimated. Commands respect because he is well educated and has something to contribute.

4.  Ray begins to give information about possible defectors from Castro.

    Cable dated 25 July 1962 reports that Ray told Willard R. Nauman that Armando Hart Davalos is a feasible target.

5.  Additional information to a July 1962 memorandum from Jack Malone (named former mgr., Kings Ranch, Cuba on interoffice route slip). Information obtained from difference sources from persons close to Ray and their views are complete reliable. Ray did not leave Castro's cabinet because of ideological or policy discrepancies with Castro but because of a heated discussion with the Minister of Labor. Martinez Sanchez, who almost shot Ray after a Cabinet meeting. The sources of information agree that Ray is not any different than Castro. Some of them believe he may not have completely severed his relations with Castro and think he may still be in contact with him. Diplomatic relations were suspended but recognition was not withdrawn.

6.  Memo from Jack Malone, dated July 16, 1962 Cover letter addressed to C. Mechen. Says Ray's ethics are poor and he is capable of sacrifycing his own kin and friends if such sacrifice turns out in favor of his personal plans. Claims Ray is irresponsible and ignorant of present international conditions and particularly of the Cuban social and economic reality.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

11110837

Manolo Ray
Volume VII continued

Quotes Ray as having said, "When I was Minister of Public Works, we, the inner circle of the Department, took a course in Marxist economics, and if what we were taught is communism, I must say that communism is not as bad as it is claimed to be."

8. Report on visit with Pay in Puerto Rico during first week of June, 1962, submitted by [Winterrowd] through [Walt Raymond] [Winterrowd] states his general impression of Ray was a good one -- seems of be a moderate, intelligent man, a little given to hysteria and slogan-mongering. Best quality is in his skill as an organizer

9. Cable to Director from JMWave, dated Aug 15, 1962 DIR Cite WAVE 7062 Ray had meeting in Miami area ll or 12 August in which an informant says Ray stated that he has arsenals in Venezuela and Cominican Republic, has a B-26 plane, territory available for training in Costa Rica and has the support through indirect means of U.S. Has invited journalists from New York Times and Time Magazine to cover his announcement of the formation of JURE.

10. Cable to Mexico City from Director, dated 6 August 65 says Ray plans to travel to Central America late August or September and needs visitors visa for Mexico. Says he has close acquaintance and wants to make personal effort to recruit him or talk him into defecting.

CIA makes inquiries in an effort to obtain visa for Ray.

11. Cable to Director from San Juan, dated August 20, 1962. Ray believes Llanusa will defect but needs financial support. Jose Gelabert to make pitch to Llanusa. Later cable says CIA willing to offer Llanusa $5,000.

12. Cable to Mexico City from Director, 23 August 1962 with directions to proceed to procure visa permit but make every effort to conceal U.S. connection. Ray had agreed in N.Y. meeting to make recruitment or defection effort towards Cuban Ambassador in Mexico.

13. Memo to Chief, Task Force W from Alfonso Rodriguez dated 24 Aug 1962 Subject: Operational Use of Ray Expenditure of Funds

Rodriguez feels beginning collaboration with Ray can be based on three specific proposals:

1. creation of an intelligence network inside Cuba
2. creation of recruitment or defection capability to assist our efforts in MEXI, RIO, SAGO, and MONT
3. immediate effort to recruit in place Carlos LEGHUGA and Raul PRIMELLES.

Recommends paying Ray $84,700 over a six month period to begin this initial operation.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Manolo Ray y Rivero Files - Volumes 1 - XVIII

April 24, 1978

11110633

Volume VIII - September 4, 1962 - December 27, 1962

1. Telegram Information Report (circa Sept. 10) Unevaluated information.
   Ray in the U.S. 8-9 September. Intends forming new organization. Some of
   those participating with Ray in this effort are Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas,
   Ramon Barquin and Justo Carrillo. Ray is of the opinion that nothing
   will be done about Cuba in the immediate future as the President of the
   United States is fulfilling "an ezpedient of a political nature." However,
   there is an ally in the White House who has assured Ray that if he organizes
   a purely revolutionary group, he will be heard.

2. Junta Revolucionaria Cubana

Declaration of Principles outline the following areas:

1. Cuban Reaffirmation recognition of sovereignty of the people, through suffra
2. Human Rights human fraternity and social solidarity for all Cubans
3. Social Justice equality of opportunity for education, work, homes, etc.
4. Economic Development intense industrialization
5. Agrarian Reform Cuban pesantry to own land he cultivates
6. International Relations break with Soviet bloc
7. Restoration of Legitimate Property not that under public power
8. Political Parties Communist Party will be proscribed
9. Political Prisoners immediate release
10. Elections within 18-month period

2. Dispatch to Chief, Task Force W from Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Date obscured

[ AMTHRILL-l provided information on Ray obtained from Silvia KOURI de
Pendas, a fellow student of Ray's at Instituto de Segunda Ensenanza #1 in
Havana. Ray never know to have sympathy for Communist cause. However, one
of his good friends, Pedro Valdes Vivo, is active member of Communist cell
and a brother of Raul Valdes Vivo, now sub-director of Communist paper
"Noticias de Hoy."

3. Cable to Priority San Juan, Info: Priority JMIJAVE, Priority Mexico City

From: Director (Rodriguez originator) dated 9 Oct 1962

Admission visa not pauched 00 forwarding document will be in WAVE hands
10 October forpass ing to Ray. Lechuga is principal target in area of
Ray trip. Stress desire keep Lechuga in place in preference to defection.

4. Memorandum for the Record dated 8 October 1962 from Patrick I. Karnley ]

Subject: Notes on Manolo Ray

In conversation with Luis Laboy, Laboy said Ray does not have any
significant following among Cuban exiles says Ray is honest person
completely motivated by patriotism but lacks qualities of a politician.
Says Ray is too blunt and even Cisneros is not happy with him these days.

Puerto Rican Police are apparently canvassing Cuban exiles regarding Manolo
Ray. In [SKIN-1 Report #54 dated 30 Sept 1962, he refere to fact that both he
and Fermin Alvarez Silva were visited by officer of PR Internal Security Force
soliciting their opinions of Ray.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Manuel Ray
Volume VIII continued

11110633

5. Excerpt from Bohemia Libre 21 October 1962, page 85 Engineer Ray's *Latest Attitude*

Letter to magazine from Olga Hernandez, Santurce, PR - an exile who believes Ray really a Communist. Her reasons based on Ray's statements to "El Mundo" on his arrival in exile that after Castro's defeat there should be maintenance of cultural and economic relations with Russia, maintenance of militia, mainenance of confiscated property, socialized medicine, supervision of national schools and gradual supression of private schools.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files, Volumes I - XVIII
April 24, 1978

Volume IX - January 1963 - July 1963 11110840

1.  Cable to Director from Caracas, dated Feb. 22, 1963

FRANCISCO SUAREZ QUINONES wishes travel to Maimi to attend JURE rally
24 February. In view Ref B (WAVE 2462) info that Suarez communist and also
MRP member, DCM has asked if any info that Suarez was undercover agent for
MRP or if he may be double agent working for Castro.

2.  Confidential Controlled Dissem. dated 3 June 1963
    Title: Plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Infiltrate the Ranks of the
    Central Intelligence Agency

On 30 April 1963, Rogelio Cisneros reported on meeting of JURE exec. board
in his home attended by, among others, Antonio Arias. During meeting,
Cisneros said it was mentioned that Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a
trusted man into the CIA in order to learn details of any plans with regard
to Cuba and if possible infiltrate this man into Cuba. Cisneros also said
JURE planning leaflet drop into Cuba which will include such matters as Ray's
Manifesto against the U.S. Government and against the CIA.

3.  Cable to Director from Paris, dated 19 June 1963 #77272

Ray in Paris - contacted by Jervay. Ray driven to airport by Alberto
Baez with whom Ray spent much time and who seems to be closest to Ray
among his contacts in Paris.. Ray in Paris and Brussels for purpose of
tering Franqui and Arcos to agents in place, or defection. Also Cabrera.
Ray convinced Cubans hee disillusioned with Castro. Asks for update of
list of personnel and addresses of all Cuban embassies in Europe to be
passed to him in San Juan and (UNRUMBLE 6 in Paris. Wants to be trained in
short wave system between himself and UNRUMBLE: 6 and station felt these
were good ideas and could be done.

4.  Memo for the Record from Alfonso Rodreguez, dated 19 June 1963
    Subject: Manolo Ray
    Ray's attitude towards CIA feels that the Agency has in the past purposely
    and actively attempted to destroy him as a political leader and has proof
    of at least one CIA officer plotted with certain MRP officials to remove him
    from the Mrp as a condition for CIA assistance to that organization.
    Ray cannot be overlooked in the struggle for Cuban freedom. "-- of all the
    Cubans I have met, he is the most purposeful, methodical, as well as the most
    experienced clandestine operator.."

5.  Confidential Controlled Dissem, dated 27 June 1963
    Re: Creation of an Intelligence Corps within the JURE
    Reliable information from former Rebel Army member (F) active in clandestine
    movements. JURE meeting about 30 March 1963 at home of journalist
    Antonio Arias said JURE national executive board had created an Intelligence
    Corps with JURE whose function was to infiltrate JURE members into various

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

1111064

Volume IX continued

organizations operating in Miami, as well as into some of the agencies of the U.S. govt. Said intelligence group would produce great results and stated as an example the infiltration of the U. S. Army.

6. Dispatch to Chief, Special Affairs Staff from Chief of Station, JMWAVE
   Dated July 22, 1963
   Subject: Manuel Ray Rivero's Opinion of CIA (AMTAUP-2 source of info)
   "During a conversation on an unspecified date, involving AMTAUP-2, Ray and Rogelio Cisneros Diaz, Ray told Cisneros that they had to be very careful with CIA agents because they were more dangerous than the Kennedy Administration. The Kennedy Administration would end but the CIA agents always stayed, and their memory was longer than the memory of elephants and they never forgot or forgave. Ray told Cisneros that he feared CIA agents would try to assassinate him because they were irreconcilable enemies."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Files of Manuel Ray y Rivero, Volumes I - XVIIT

April 24, 1978

11110842

Volume X - August 1963 - September 1963

1.  Memorandum for the Record from Alfonso Rodriguez, dta. 2 August 1963
    Subject: Meeting with Ray (27 July 1963 in Miami)

Ray to attempt a sabotage operation against the Havana power plant and wants
20lbs high explosives as well as 6-8 thermite grenades. Requested that the
materials be cached inside Cuba (preferably) or in San Juan. Requested that
arrangements be made for Rogelio Cisneros to visit Guatanamo to visit his
brother to inform him of JURE plans -- Rodriguez says possibility remote.
Ray planning to visit Caracas and Costa Rica later if he has a visa from
Mexico. Purpose of trip is fund raising.

2.  Cable from JMWAVE to Director #63249 dtd 22 Aug 1963
    Ray's Mexican visa forwarded WAVE by safehand Sept 62 and request it
    be airmailed to Ray in Puerto Rico. Ray planning trip Costa Rica, Caracas,
    Dom. Rep. and Mexico. Departing San Juan 29 August for first leg.

3.  Memorandum for the Record dated 23 August 1963, from A. Rodriguez
    Subject: Ray, Contact Report

Met with Ray in N.Y.C. on 19 August. Rodriguez recommends to Ted Shackley
that ammunition for JURE be cached near Florida Keys. Thinks it necessary
to help Ray this much in order to measure his capabilities. Ray is having
a 25-foot boat outfitted in Miami area to be operational by about Sept. 10.
Will be used primarily for infiltration and exfiltration of personnel into
Cuba. Ray also says he has been offered a 210 ft. Corvette, flying a
Venezuelan flag and owned by Spaniards friendly to JURE. Said he could extend
operations along the south coast of Cuba for as much as 2 3 weeks with
this vessel. Ray was interested in whether or not KIM flights were to be
resumed into Cuba as he is hopeful of returning by legal means which would
not pose as many difficulties as present Mexican and Spanish air travel
conditions.

Ray says he hoped to soon penetrate the Cuban delegation to the U.N.
Said his contact with Ambassador Lechuga, through a woman member of the
JURE, continues, but without significant progress. Lechuga is most
friendly towards her but does not wish to discuss any of his problems with
her.

Rodriquez recommends continuation of monthly $10,000 payments to Jure and
an additional $15,00 to cover cost of vessels to be acquired.-- total of
$25,000 monthly for 6 months.

4.  Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 24 August 1963 #232228z
    Ray Mexican visa waiver number 50844 issued 3 Sept 62 valid for six months.
    hence now expired. Under circumstances, WAVE not mailing to Ray unless
    otherwise instructed.

5.  Cable to JMWAVE from Director, dtd 24 Aug 63 Cite Dir. 63774 Please
    air mail as Ray will need to procure new waiver.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Volume X continued

11110243

5. Cable to(San Jose, Caracas, Santo Domingo,) Mexico Cityk JMWAVE
   From: Director dated 31 August 63

Ray departing 29 Aug. on trip to first three addees. Attempting renew Mexican visa waiver for travel there later. Purpose of trip to solicit political backing, raise funds, tighten JURE organization, streamline communication and establish take-off points for operations against target.

7. Cable to Director from JMWAVE dtd 7 Sept 63, Ref WAVE 3895

Reported conversation with Ray's sister-in-law wherein she stated Ray visited her home on 30 August to say goodby. He was going to be infiltrated into Cuba and would not see her for some time. Said he was not in accord with certain U.S. officials on Cuban policy and has no confidence in U.S. ability to liberate Cuba. Said he had refused two invitations extended by RFK to discuss Cuban situation.

8. Document transfer and Cross Reference dtd 10 Sept 63[ UFG-03590 ]
   Ray arrived secretly in Miami from Puerto Rico, had secret meeting with Manuel Quiza Docal, LDR of Cubanos Libres, in which Quiza officially connected his organization to JURE for all action. Later traveled to N.Y.C. to purchase c-4 explosives.

9. Cable to Director from JMWAVE dtd 11 Sept 63, report from AMTAUP-2]
   who spoke with Rogelio Cisneros on 6 Sept. Cisneros stated Ray departed for Costa Rica on 5 Sept to interview President Orlich. Said on Ray's last meeting with RFD, the private secretary of President Romulo Betancourt was present. Cisneros said JURE objective is to have different prominent figures in Latin American governments witness promises made by U.S. govt. Cisneros said JURE not obligated to report military or political plans to CIA but CIA obligated to deliver to JURE all military equipment needed to fight Castro. Delivery of equipment will be on high seas from a CIA boat to JURE boat which will proceed to Cuba.

10. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 6 Sept 63. Elania Germania (Bernal) de Paula reported she learned from her brother-in-lay, Manuel Ray, that he had recently been in Europe negotiating arms purchases in Belgium. Contact man for purchase of Col. Ramon Barquin.

11. Cable to Director from MEXI dtd 27 Sept 1963 #6301

[LITAMIL-2 approached by Julio Lanier on behalf of Ray and JURE. Want to start military operation against Cuba using Mexico as a base. Lanier says Ray receiving money from Venezuela. L-2 is a CIA agent Cuban citizen living in Mexico. Mexican station wants to keep him clean of overt exile activity.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Volume XI continued - page 2 11110645

7. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dtd 11 Oct 63
   On October 1, Cisneros tells AMTAUP-1 that Ray to visit Betancourt later in week to report on status of JURE negotiations with U.S. and promises made to Ray by RFK during recent interviews.

8. Cable 1723012 17 Octobar 53 to Director from JMWAVE.
   On 15 October 1963, Jose (Gomez) Rodriguez, aka Cabeza, JURE member tells AMTAUP-2 that CIA officials from Washington, D. C. coming to Miami to finalize agreements with JURE. Also said JURE would never tell CIA exact landing sites on Cuban coast.

9. Cable to Director from Mexico City, 26 October 1963
   Secret 2600352
   Dir WAVE Cite Mexi 6677
   Ref A Mexi 6455 (not sent WAVE) (IN 36021
   REF B HMMA 22285 (also recd 2285)
   JURE representative Julio Lanier pressing LITAMII2 to obtain Mexican visas for Luis Giun Figueredo and Rogelio Cisneros Diaz who want to inspect plane of Ref A.

Fast action needed or L-2 will not be able to meet Cisnero and have an "in" with JURE group for purpose of ooverage of JURE PM activities Mexi. Lanier will set up meeting in Miami or San Juan.

10. Dispatch to Chief, Special Affairs from CS/JMWAVE, dtd 21 Oct 63
    Information received from AMTAUP-2
    Ray to arrive in Miami 26 July, in secret, because he wanted to hold private meetings to discuss military affairs with action groups in Miami. Met at home of Rogelio Cisneros Diaz on 28 July. Met with Armando Alanis Angulo and asked him to join JURE. Alanis former Chief of Fiscal District of the Treasury in Camaguey Province. Ray says he has organization inside Cuba but needs personnel on outside with which to operate. Claimed to have 300 weapons in Miami.

On 18 August, Cisneros meets with Alanis and Luis Aguiar (who belongs to Alanis group). Talked of plans for Aguiar's men to infiltrate Las Villas Province and open a JURE organization.

Alanis officially joins JURE on 20 August 1963 and received Cisnero assurances they will get financial help from JURE.

11. Cable to Chief, Special Affairs Staff from JMWAVE/CS.dtd 22 Oct 1963
6. On 30 September, Ray departed for San Juan from Miami, after having visited Venezuela, Costa Rica, Honduras and Panama to gain support for operations against Cuba.

12. Cable 79065 on 29 October 1953. Willard R. Nauman will arrive San Juan October 31, 1963 to meet Ray in St. Thomas. Do not plan contact unless need arises.

SECRET
![MC]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET
Betsy Palmer
Volume XI - continued - Page 3

11110646

13. Field Information Report dtd 26 October 1963
    Ray in Miami 10/26/63 to meet with Ernesto Betancourt, former MRP and now
    Washington, D. C. delegate of ELC. May have met in an effort to merge ELC
    with JURE. Ray feels need to be in Cuba in 90 days - hurricane Flora has
    seriously damaged Cuba and this is an opportune time.

14. Memo for Record from Alfonso Rodriguez
    Subject: Meeting with Ray in St. Thomas on 31 October and 1 November 1963
    Discussed JURE plans to begin operations inside Cuba by end of December.

15. Cable dtd 16 Nov 1963 to Director from JMWAVE indicates Ray taking meetig
    vessel REX within 50 miles of Cuba - cargo, 600 lbs. demolitions.

16. Cable dtd 18 November 1963 to JMWAVE from Director confirms understanding
    that all dates mentioned in Rules of Engagement this operation are moved up
    two days. Thus, WAVE will begin operation by caching materials and departing
    scene by 1200 on 25 November 1963.

17. Cable dated 3 December 1963 to JMWAVE from Director indicates Ray
    involved in infiltration plan, Operation BOLA, and CIA doubts his story
    as to why he couldn't complete mission -- said low on gas.

18. Payments to Ray 21 June 1963 - 5 December 1963, totalled $107,925.00
    No payments in November.

19. Memo for Record from Alfonso Rodriguez, dtd 13 Dec 1963

Meets with Ray in N.Y.C. 12/6/63. JURE ship failed to pick up materials
deposited on Roncador Cay on 25 November 1963. Ray had no full explanation
for failure. Low on gas theory doubtful as ship did arrive a Puerto Limon
on 27 November as scheduled. -- Ray doubts this story. Alternate date of
20 December set up, embarking from Puerto Limon, Costa Rica this time.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET
Betsy Palmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files - Volumes I - XVIII

May 1, 1978

Volume XII - January 1964 - February 1964

11110647

1. Intelligence Information Cable, 4 January 1964 - information from Carlos Hernandez Hernandez, an Executive Member of Brigade 2506 veterans Association said the Brigade rejected a proposed alliance with JURE on December 7, 1963. Brigade is apposed to Artime, but more opposed to Ray.

2. Identification provided by CIA for Ray in his attempt to infiltrate Cuba. Request made 6 January 1964 - Ray to use identity of Juan Cardenas Mendez.

3. Cable to Director from JMWAVE, dated 8 January 1964, Dir Cite WAVE 0106

(AMOT-84 said he learned from newspaperman Abelardo (Garcia) Berry that Ray had met in Paris with Carlos Franqui Mesa to propose that Franqui join Ray's organization, that is, sector of "Betrayed Revolution". Garcia believes that in order to obtain Franqui's defection, Ray told him about alleged plans of U.S. to overthrow Castro in which Ray was to play a prominent part. Garcia further believes that Franqui's "falling into disgrace" in Cuba is a trick of Castro and Franqui.

4. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 8 January 1964 states that Governor Munoz Marin, Puerto Rico, pledged to give Ray double any amount Ray raised on a bond sale by JURE to buy guns. JURE has large quantity of arms in P.R. under protection of the Governor.

5. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 14 January 1964. Cisneros said JURE has military training base in Costa Rica under command of Julio Cesar Alonso, Military Chief of JURE. All JURE boats now at Costa Rican base and also arms which had been in Puerto Rico. Said JURE leaders do not plan to to work in Miami area or anywhere else in U.S. because they are afraid CIA will seize their military equipment.

6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 16 Jan 1964 - Amtaup/2 reported that Julio Cesar Alonso replaced as chief of Costa Rican military base of JURE because of his failure to go on a scheduled operation. (Check to see if this was the aborted mission of 25 November 1963)

6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dated 30 January 1964. Amtaup/2 reported conversation with Sergio Sanchez and Rogelio Cisneros. Cisneros said FBI and INS, Puerto Rico, picked up JURE arms and explosives cached at Cajon de Muerto. Before JURE could pick cach up, it was discovered by a fisherman who advised authorities. JURE boat found and searched, but not retained as they hast thrown antiaircraft guns overboard. Governor of P.R. called newspapers and informed them he thought Castro had cached the arms in order to overthrow P.R. Cisneros says he did this to sidetrack FBI and TNS investagations and to eliminate possibility Ray's activities would be revealed. Cisneros said JURE boat located in P.R. and registered in Panama in name of person who is extremely close to governor P.R. and bitter enemy of CIA. Amtaup/2 questioned by Governor P.R. was trusted by Jure, to which Cisneros replied that Governor primarily nationalist and enemy of U.S. imperialist politics and therefore an enemy of CIA.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Volume XII - Manuel Ray

Page 2

11110643

6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 31 Jan 64 - Article in Miami Herlad about the discovery of arms cache in Puerto Rico confirms accuracy of Amtaup/2 reporting that Ray involved in robbery U.S. Military installation and that Governor Marin is misleading FBI investigation. WAVE believes the C-3 explosive found in cache was provided Ray by WAVE as directed by Hdqtrs, but WAVE did not provide any weapons. WAVE will tell loaal FBI that they know nothing regarding background of cache discovery and assume Haqtrs will coordinate case at Wash.D.C. level with FBI.

7. Intelligence Information Cable, dated 4 Feb. 1964 - reliable source says RAY expected in Caracas, Venezuela middle of February 1964 to establish a guerrilla training base for JURE in venezuela. Will be a regional center used by JHRE members in Venezuela and Panama. (Likely that if Ray succeeds in setting up camp, it will be with tacit consent of Betancourt government. Field Comment). Ray claims he will be inside Cuba by 20 May 1964.

8. Cable to DIR from Panama City, dated 9 Feb 1964 states JOSE MARIA PUENTE BLANCO, Panamanian/Cuban, DOB 17 July 1930, Havana, Cuba, keft Panama City for Caracas on 8 Feb. He is possible Castro agent and Panama City would appreciate information re his activities in Caracas and/or subsequent travel.

9. Memo for the Record, dtd 12 Feb 1964 from Alfonso Rodriguez
   Subject: Meeting with AMBANG/1

ELC, according to Ray, was now disolved and became a part of JURE on 17 Jan. 1964. This brings to JURE the best former rebel army officers in exile and- should give JURE a military background and support second to none in the exile community.

Comments: AMTAUP/2 reports have indicated Cisneros activities and statements are directed against the CIA. Rodriguez discusses Amtaup/2's reporting with Tony Sforza and Warren Frank. If Cisneros is in fact directing a program of denigration against the CIA, suggest agency follow the activities of Dionisio Suarez Esquival, who reportedly has been selected to carry out such a program in various Latin American univerities.

10. Cable to DIR from Panama City, dated 22 Feb. 1964. The PUENTE BLANCO brothers have been under some suspicion since their arrival in RACY following their release from Cuban prison as result of intervention of Thelma King. Part of suspicion is a result of activities of their brother, Jorge, still in Cuba.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET

Betsy Falmer

Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero Files - Volumes I - XVIII

May 1, 1978
Volume XIII - March 1964 - April 1964

11110640

1. Memorandum to Acting Chief, Contact Division, dated 6 March 1964
   From: Cincinnati R.A.
   Thru: Chief, Detroit Office
   SUBJECT: Castro Type Subversion Likely/Manuelo Ray Dangerous Exile Leader
   now in Puerto Rico
   REFERENCE: CR-64-2 and WH-1594

Architect, Nocholas Quintana, residing in Cuba, told the following to a Mr.
Raphael Katzen, consulting engineer in U.S. Manuelo Ray is in Quintana's
opinion more dangerous to U.S. than Castro. Ray is not a Soviet type
Communist according to Quintana, but his socialism is so extreme and his
anti-U.S. feelings so deep that he considers Ray a dangerous exile leader,
at least to the U.S.

Manuelo Ray is known to be of interest to the local FBI (Cincinnati).

(Check -- is this CIA memo?)

2. Memorandum for the Record, dated 16 March 1964
   From: Sidney P. Di Ubaldo
   Subject: Contact Report, Meeting with Ernesto Betancourt

Betancourt has known Ray for several years and admired him through all various
seasons of their relationship. Betancourt impressed with Ray's organizational
talents and talents as an engineer.. Says Ray an effective and judicious
personality and appeals to Cuban exiles of various stripes. Betancourt
expressed a fear that Ray, in his zeal, might commit himself to such tight
timing that he would be forced to undertake action at a disadvantageous
moment.

Di Ubaldo comments that if Betancourt was leading him on in an attempt to
sell Ray to him, it was done with a "subtlety to which I am definitely not
accustomed".

3. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 17 March 1964. Cisneros told AMTAUP/2
   that CIA had ordered personnel of AMWORLD (Artime's group) boats to fire on
   JURE boats and therefore Cisneros had instructed his crewmen to fire on
   AMWORLD boats wherever encountered.

Cisneros had meeting at his home on 15 March, attended by Armando Alanis
Angulo, Dunney Perez Alamo, Jose Puente Blanco, National Chief JURE youth
and member of JURE national Executive, and AMTAUP/2. Cisneros related that
Romulo Betancourt told Ray in Caracas that Betancourt will work in favor of
JURE. Puente confirmed this. Betancourt promised to arrange urgent meeting
with U.S. officials in Washington to get promise from them that CIA would
not sabotage any of JURE's planned operations.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Manuel Ray Volume XIII
Page 2

11110850

4. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 28 March 1964 - AMTAUP/2 spoke with Blas Enrique Comas Castro, captain of JURE boad VENUS which is in Puerto Rico. Said Cisneros and Ray recently arrived in P.R. from Caracas and said Venus would be used to infiltrate Ray into Cuba in a few days.

AMTAUP/2 said Armando Alanis Angulo said he was leaving Miami on 30 March for new JURE base within 6 hours of Miami. Said base under responsibility of Dunney Perez alamo and himself. Also said Ray had chosen Venus to make trip to Cuba and Venus armed with 20MM gun, four 50 Cal and one 30 Cal machine guns.

5. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 28 Marhh 1964 AMTAUP/2 reports that Alanis, Perez and Antonio Arias Gonzalez, JURE members, are dissatisfied with Ray's organization because they had now been forbidden to criticize U.S. govarnment policies, and the fact that they were allowed to have a training camp near Miami indicated that Ray is accepting CIA aid. Cisneros claimed the main objective of JURE was to keep U.S. govt. entertained with the training base set up in Miami area and that departure of JURE members to infiltrate Cuba will be outside U.S.

6. Accounting of funds received by Ray, from June 21, 1963 - April 8, 1964, show a total expenditure of $217,924.28 by CIA.

7. Memo for the Chief, WH Division, dated 14 April 1964, from Alfonso Rodreguez - Subject: My Meeting with Ray on 13 April 1964.

Essense of Ray's plans: 1. Two teams expected to go into Oriente Province this week.
2. Ray will turn over JURE contact with us to Cisneros, effective 23 April.

Ray's immediate objective once in Cuba will be to initiate systematic, continuous bombings of strategic and non-strategic targets. Power plant in Havana, major refinery and aquaduct in Santa Clara are immediate objectives.

8. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 26 April 1964. AMTAUP/2 reported that JURE training base opened near Tampa, Fla: for 30 men and planning to set up a base in Dominican Republic.

i.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# SECRET
Betsy Palmer

File Review, Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I - XVIII

May 1, 1978
Volume XIV - May 1964

1111065. 
1.  AMWORLD Meeting in San Juan, P.R., 2-5 May 1964
    Subject: Ray's Plans
    Submitted by Henry D. Hecksher, WH/SA/SO/HH

Ray's plans to infiltrate Cuba by 20 May were discussed at meeting. Questions about Ray's financing of Puerto Rican conference and ability to store arms and engage in training activities on U.S. soil were raised by AMYUM/19(MRR) Member). He volunteered to tell Hecksher where arms could be found be Hecksher "quickly dissuaded him from divulging further details" at which point AMYUM 19 commented that GUERTLER had reacted in a similar way when offered facts and figures about Ray's activities. Artime stated he would not put it past Ray to go into hiding in a secure place while pretending to be in Cuba.

2.  Cable to JMWAVE from DIR, 7 May 1964 - After looking at AMTAUP material, it is obvious much of conspiratorial talk in JURE is for internal consumption only, the purpose being to protect myth that JURE is independent as basically hostile to CIA. In a desire to obtain proof of any anti-CIA or U.S. govt. activity by Ray, urge every effort to check accuracy of AMTAUP/AMOT reporting and follow through for any overt manifestations of many allegations made.

3.  Memo for the Director of Central Intelligence, from Richard Helsm,
    DD/P, dated 13 May 1964. Subject: Plans of Manuel Ray and the JURE to Infiltrate into Cuba.

Helms says there is no question but that Ray seriously plans to enter Cuba sometime in May 1964. JURE has 6 teams ready to infiltrate - a total of 27 men. Ray hopes with aid of 40 men, he can demonstrate that resistance is possible and that Castro can be defied.

4.  Cable to DIR from JMHAVE, dtd 20 May 1964. Andrew St. George, on assignment with Time-Life, left Miami 18 May with JURE elements for rendezvous with Ray.

5.  Memo for the Record dtd 20 May 1964, from Samuel Halpern
    Subject: JURE Purchase of Arms

Chronological resume of reports reaching WH/SA desk regarding attempted purchase of arms by JURE in El Monte, California.

A. Revenue officials queried CIA re its knowledge of certain arms being handled by Juan Erquiaga Aizcorbe in L.A. area for shipment to Florida. H/SA denied knowledge. Discussion about 20 May 1964.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SECRET

Betsy Palmer
11110852
Manuel Ray - Volume XIV
Page 2

B. Rogelio Cisneros calls Rodriguez (Kalperat) on 20 May to advise him certain arms being manufactured to JURE specifications in El Monte and being investigated by U.S. Treasury. Cisneros says JURE has invested $50,000 in these weapons being manufactured bu Knuson (sic) Manufacturing Co.

C. Rodriguez (the / Wpdf $f the dy tells Cisneros this is pretty sad situation that JURE must make use of Costa Rican, Venezuelan and other L.A. connections or they were going to get "clobbered" in U.S.

Ca Halpern and Rodrigaez advised Mr. FitzGerald of the above. He agreed agency could not assist JURE in this matter. On 20 May, Mr. Bowdler of St. Dept. notified of the matter, and Deputy Chief, WH/SA advised.

E. Joseph O'Neill of OGC called on 20 May and informed that JURE was involved but agency did not want Revenue called off its investigation because of the "autonomous" nature of our relationship wity JURE.

6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 22 May 1964. Sender states that the manner of Tad Szulc in an office visit on May 21 and new confident tone expressed by Cisneros conveyed feeling to cable sender that Ray has made it into Cuba.

7. Cable tp JMWAVE from DIR, dated 23 May 1964. Request Reuteman advise AMCARBON/1 that he has checked with hdqtrs and that Ray is not receiving CIA support. Reuteman should trace history of intimate relationship of AMCAPE/1 with Ray noting that since Bay of Pigs, AMCAPE/1 has been serving, in effect, as a public relations man and loggyist for Ray. Further explain to AMCARBON/1 that AMCAPE/1 must be credited with single-handedly placing entire Cuban nation on alert and causing withdrawal of masses of conscripted workers from cane fields merely by articles playing on theme of threat of infiltration of Ray and a few men. Tell AMCARBON/1 that CIA would not become party to Ray operation knowing close relationship with AMCAPE/1, particularly since latter well known to be less than friendly to CIA.

8. Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 26 May 1964. Cisneros says that as of 23 May 1964, no contact has been established with Ray but Cisneros believes he has reached Cuba.

!

9. Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 28 May 1964 - Cisneros says Ray has not as yet been able to infiltrate Cuba and will make another attempt night of 28 May 1964. Cisneros says vigilance by U.S. authorities over activities of JURE reps. in Florida making support of Ray's effort extremely difficult.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# SECRET

File Review of Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I - XVIII

May 1, 1978

Volume XV - June 1964

Betsy Palmer

11110853

1. Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 30 May 1964 - information from Rogelio Cisneros Diaz - as of 30 May 1964, Ray had not entered Cuba. Boat to be used in final infiltration developed motor trouble. JURE reps were making all out effort to go to Ray's aid with replacement for boat and an additional supply of drinking water.

2. Cable to JMWAVE from DIR, dated 2 June 1961, Ref: WAVE 7218 (in 95616)* Please note similarities rumor reported Ref Para 2 and statement attributed to Rogelio Cisneros that CIA had instructed AMWORLD boats to fire on JURE boats per WAVE 3691 (IN 41477). Is this significant?

* Artime's followers authorized to attack any of Ray's or Gutierrez's men on high seas.

2. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE dated 3 June 1964 ) stating that Ray and Andrew St. George were among the individuals arrested by the British near Cayo Largo. (Location of Anguilla Cay also used in cable). Detainees taken to Nassau. Tom Dunkan, Life photographer, also in group.

3. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 4 June 1964 - AMTAUP/2 reported that Ray's organization going to make press statement that Ray's failure to enter Cuba was fault of CIA.

4. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE dtd 6 June 1964 reflects feelings of Cuban exile community over Ray's failure to enter Cuba.

a. Ray made a fool of himself by taking a girl and two non-Cuban newsmen with him, none of whome adapted to rigors of guerrilla warfare.

b. British and U.S. participated in Ray's capture

c. Whole thing was a publicity stunt which went wrong.

d. Enrique Huertas jubilant over Ray's disgrace, but feels it is a loss of exile prestige and harbingers bleak and hopeless period

e. Dr. Antonio Maceo says many have lost faith in Ray for lack of accomplishment this past year.

f. Ray is laughing stock. Those who had hopes now feel he is only an ambitious politican not will to keep promises.

g. JURE members confused and undecided over how to defend Ray. Alanis and Zarraga wish to remove their followers from JURE.

h. Cisneros states to AMTAUP that Ray will accuse U.S. govt of treachery for cutting off economic aid one month ago and for searching his home, automobile and offices (Cisnero's?) (Photostats in volume XIV)

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Volume XV - June 1964
Page 2

1111065-1

5. Memo for the Record, dtd 9 June 1964, from Alfonso Rodreguez
   Subject: Possible Plans of Ray

Opinion of Rodriguez that Ray will attempt asap to mount another infiltration effort. He is relatively certain JURE has or can procure a small craft capable of making trip from Florida to Cuba. He also thinks that either $$$$/ Ray "would be willing to publicly give the lie to the TIME magazine article of 12 June 1964.

6. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 10 June 1964 - re-canvassing of exile community reveals Ray's prestige at near-absolute low point. Trend is tendency to ignore Ray completely. Information that JURE in considerable dissension. Threats of various factions to withdraw unless Cisneros dismissed and national board reorganized.

7. Memo for Record, dtd 12 June 1964 from Samuel Halpern
   Subject: Information from the British in Answer to Questions Re;
   Identify of American Who Allegedly Paid Manuel Ray's fine in Nassau.

[Chris Phillpotts] called 12 June to say Gov. of Bahamas had replied to our query as to the identify of American who allegedly paid Ray's fine in Nassau. (see TIME of 12 June 1964, page 48 -- alleged CIA paid). Governor saated he had seen no such figure and to best of his knowledge, there was no such person. "I of course did not tell [Chris Phillpotts] that we knew the identity of the American as reported to us by Rogelio Cisneros of JURE."

8. Memo for Record, dtd 12 June 1964 from Alfonso Rodriguez
   Subject: JURE telegram to TIME Magazine

Protest falsity of information published by TIME re: capture of Manuel Ray and his group. False that a CIA ship participated in any phase of operation. Also false that a CIA individual paid fine -- the $84.00 was sent to JURE by an American citizen at request of one of his employees.

9. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 27 June 1964: According to AMFAST/6, Ray informed Pepe Catillo (Jose Garcia Valdez) their departure date for Cuba would be July 1. Boat to be used is unnamed Rybovitch rented in Ft. Lauderdale. Ray planning to stay in Cuba about 15 days.

10 Memo for Record, dtd 29 June 1964, from Alfonso Rodriguez
Subject: Establishment of Base Abroad; Manuel Ray Rivero

On June 22, the Special Group agreed "no monies would be forthcoming, specifically a requested $25,000, until he ceased" all activities from U.S. mainland.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

File Review - Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I XVIII
May 2, 1978

11110655

Volume XVI July 1, 1964 August 28, 1964

1. Draft on Manuel Ray by Alfonso Rodriguez dtd 6 July 1964

After his failure to reach Cuba during May 1964, Ray believes he must go into Cuba as soon as possible. Within JURE, according to Ray, his detention by the British is viewed as an unfortunate incident. Ray said some JURE members considering demonstrations before British embassies and consulates.

2. Memo for the Record dtd 7 July 1964 from Alfonso Rodriguez
   Subject: Tad Szulc Relationship with Manuel Ray

Rodriguez questioned Ray's using newspaper correspondents as emissaries to departments of the U.S. govt. Ray stated that Szulc took it upon himself to speak about matters related to assisting Ray. Rodriguez says it would be wrong to assume that Ray is controlled by Szulc but Ray "undoubtedly knows that Szulc has worked hard, first with President Kennedy and now, for him and his interest. This cannot but influence Ray."

2. Intelligence Information Memo, 14 and 15 June 1964 ON 08
   Source: Jose Alvarez Sola, private chauffeur of Rogelio Cisneros Diaz

JURE's national executive met 14/15 June to discuss crisis within the organization concerning Cisneros. Dr. Raul Chibas Ribas stated that if Cisneros not removed from his position, Chibas would make public his resignation.

3. Memorandum for Director of Central Intelligence, dtd 9 July 1964
   From: Dismond FitzGerald, Chief/WH Division
   Subject: Chronology of Concept of Autonomous Operations and
   Summary of Financial Support to Manuel Artime

Attachment A is listing of origin, briefings, discussions, and approvals by appropriate policy levels of the concept of autonomous operations and specifically support to Artime. Chron clearly shows that from the very beginning the problems inherent in autonomous operations were clearly stated at all times by the Agency and that appropriate policy levels were kept fully and regularly informed of the status of autonomous operations.

Attachment B contains summary and breakdown of financial support for Artime. Summary states that, "From June 1963 through 30 June 1964 the Agency spent $4,933,293 in support of the Artime operation." Fixed monthly subsidy is $225,000.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

11110856

Volume XVI continued
page 2

Origin of Autonomous Operations

Integrated Covert Action Program for Cuba, approved by Higher Authority in June 1963, provided for "support of autonomous anti-Castro Cuban groups to supplement and assist in the execution" of other courses of action. Concept was first voiced in Sept. 1962 in Walter Rostow's proposal for a "Track Two" approach to Cuban operations. Parallel to regular CIA-controlled Cuban teams, CIA would extend financial aid and some advice and guidance to independent and uncontrolled Cuban leaders such as Manuel Ray.

Rules of Engagement incorporated into June 1963 program.

1.  "It is the keystone of autonomous operations that they will be executed exclusively by Cuban nationals motivated by the conviction that the overthrow of the Castro/Communist regime must be accomplished by Cubans, both inside and outside Cuba acting in consonance.
2.  The effort will probably cost many Cuban lives. If this cost in lives becomes unacceptable to the U.S. conscience, autonomous operations can be effectively halted by the withdrawal of U.S. support; but once halted, they cannot be resumed.
3.  All autonomous operations will be mounted outside the territory of the United States.
4.  The United States Government must be prepared to deny publicly any participation in these acts no matter how loud or even how accurate may be the reports of U. S. complicity.
5.  The United States presence and direct participation in the operation would be kept to an absolute minimum. Before entering into an operational relationship with a group, the U.S. representative will make it clear that his Government has no intention of intervening militarily, except to counter intervention by the Soviets. An experienced CIA officer would be assigned to work with the group in a liaison capacity. He would provide general advice as requested as well as funds and necessary material support. He may be expected to influence but not control the conduct of operations.
6.  These operations would not be undertaken within a fixed time schedule."

[^4]. Article from New York Times, Wednesday, July 15, 1964, bylined Tad Szulc "Ray Said To Leave For Cuba Landing Castro Foe, Balked in May, Reported on Way Again."

[^5]. Cable to DIR from JMBARR, dtd 15 Jul 1964. M/V True with Manolo Ray and crew returned Key West area --- had motor trouble.

[^6]. Cable to DIR from JMWAVE, dtd 18 July 1964. Ray's latest misadventures trying get into Cuba mid-July greeted with relative indifference majority Cuban exiles Miami area.

[^7]. Wireservice prinout - Miami, Flay, July 24, 1964. Three exile groups withdrew from Ray's JURE today protesting that Ray failed to make good his promise to enter Cuba to reactivate the anti-Castro underground. Spokesman was Jesus Dieguez of the Revolutionary National Assembly.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Review of Files - Manuel Ray y Rivero - Volumes I- XVIII

Volume XVII - September 1964 - February 1965
May 2, 1978 11110857

1. Memo dtd 1 Sept 1964, Subject: AMTAUP-2 Production
   "Chief of Reports Comments: It would appear that AMTAUP-2's reporting on
   JURE matters have been generally reliable."

2. Autonomous Operations - Operating Plan
   Activity: AMBANG
   For the Period: 1 October - 31 December 1964. Total of $75,000 paid
   to effect move of JURE activities from U.S. territory and as a final payment
   to JURE.

3. Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 9 Sept 1964
   Source: Jose Garcia Valdez, aka "Pepe Gatillo"
   Subject: Plans of JURE leader Manuel Ray Rivero to depart Miami for an
   Undisclosed Location.

   Ray asked Garcia on 9 Sept 64 to take him, St. George and Mirta Borras on
   trip to unspecified destination. To depart on JURE catamaran.

4. Memo for the Record, dtd 11 Sept 1964 from Alfonso Rodreguez

   On Aug 24, 1964, Rogelio Cisneros called to report his resignation from JURE.
   Stated Ray incapable of directing both political and military activities.
   Cisneros thinks Raul Chibas will soon also resign. Cisneros said Ray not
   prepared for ill-fated May attempt into Cuba and Cisneros thinks Ray had
   believed he could arrange for CIA to take him into Cuba. "Ray is politically
   unformed --- politically that which he last read". Cisneros further stated
   that he believed Ray had planned his entire return-to-Cuba angle with President
   Kennedy and the presidential elections of November 1964 in mind. According to
   him, Ray planned to make JURE and Ray outstanding liberal and democractic
   exile group with the thought that prior to the 1964 elections, Mr. Kennedy
   would have to do something about Cuba. With Kennedy's death, according to
   Cisneros, all of Ray's plans went awry. Rodriguez expresses to Cisneros
   that this seems like a far-fetched possibility and Cisneros admits he got
   idea out of thin air, but said theory widely held within Directorate of JURE.

5. Memo for the Record - draft dtd 22 Sept 1964 Alfonso Rodriguez
   Conclusions "I recommend we give Ray what he asks and close the JURE books
   for good. If Ray is succesful in Cuba he will not need our help, if he is
   not, our help won't do much good.

   "He is honest and at least the money will largely be spent for the
   purpose he wants to achief.

   "Whatever Ray may ever say, he was treated the way he asked to be
   treated. We have played the game in a manner beyond reproach."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Volume XVII - continued

11110853

Page 2

6. Erquiaga Arms shipment to JURE episode.
   Cable from San Jose: DIR CITE [SJOS]7152, REF: DIR-63886

16-15
21-15
Please pass to Asst. Sec. Mann from Ambassador Telles: "I saw President
Orlich and Minister Quiros Sasso on 18 November and conveyed reference position.
The President was visibly shaken to learn that US government was not in-
volved in this arms shipment. After some discussion with Minister Quiros,
President Orlich requested that we not issue license for AMBANG-1 shipment.
President Orlich made clear he would be happy at any time to undertake
action such as this if US government wanted him to. While he does wish
see Cuba free he inclined to agree with US position Re Hit and Run raids
undertaken principally for publicity sake. President Orlich's decision
based on (1) relaization that he would not be doing us a favor and, (2)
further realization that CRG would be hard pressed to explain such a
$70,000 purchase of arms if it became a campaign issue in 1965."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

File Review Manuel Ray y Rivero, Volumes I - XVIII

Volume XVIII - March 1965

May 2, 1978

11110650

1.  Memo dtd 18 November 1965 to: United States Secret Service
    From: Deputy Director for Plans
    Subject: Ray, Rivero, Manuel Antonio aka: Ray, Manolo

In response to a telephonic request of 15 Nov. 1965 for a name trace
on Ray. CIA files contain voluminous information from sources of
varying reliability re: Ray who is well known to Intelligence Community
as a prominent anti-Castro Cuban exile leader and head of JURE. If par-
ticular info is desired, please specify.

2.  Memo dtd 6 Dec 1965 to Secret Service from DD/P gives 2 1/2 page
    standard bio information on Ray.

3.  Memo dtd 15 Dec 1965 to Commissioner, INS from DD/P
    Subject: Roige Cerezo, Jose
    (A 12 399 923 TC)

According to CIA files, information dtd Aug 1963 from a Cuban emigree source,
Roige was designated chief of intelligence by National Direction Abroad of
JURE. Source said intelligence group created in Marc 1963 on orders of
Manuel Ray for purpose of infiltrating JURE members into various organizations
which operated in Miami area, as well as into agencies of U.S. govt. Further,
that in April 1963, Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a JURE member into CIA
in order to learn details of plans regarding Cuba. JURE also intended to
drop leaflets into Cuba of a derogatory nature regarding U.S. govt. In-
cluded in these leaflets was Subject's manifesto against the U.S. govt and
against this Agency.

4.  Ltr. dtd June 2, 1966 from Dr. Julian Gallo to Harry (Mahoney?)

Gallo is contact with Ray in Puerto Rico and trying to discover the names
of Ray's contacts in Cuba. Ray, apparently is seeking a Mexican visa from
Gallo and unhappy that it did not come through. Refused to reveal names
or addresses to Gallo and would not give information about where his radio
broadcast tapes were to be sent for transmission into Cuba.

5.  Memo for the Record, dtd 21 June 1966 from Charles Anderson

Met with Ray on 28 April 1966. Anderson said in general Ray had less
information on the "purge situation that I did.! Ray said relatives
of Gustavo Arcos in P.R. had telephone contact with Arcos family in Cuba,
about 25 April and that Arcos still in prison but charges against him
were thin. "(This means there was at least one more telephone call than
we knew of previously, and this has probably served to increase the pressure
on Arcos)." Anderson tells of his concern and strong interest in Arcos on
the chance that Ray might assume Arcos had been CIA agent. Doesn't know
if Ray will construe remark this way but it seemed like an opening "to use
an important exile channel as a possible deception mechanism."

"I believe that later in the summer it might be a good idea to have
another talk with AMBANG to keep up with exile thinking, and feeding more
deception thoughts."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Volume XVIII continued
Page 2

11110860

6. Intelligence Information Cable, dtd 28 June 1966
   Source: Qualified American Observer

On 15 June 1955, Rafael Garcia-Bango, Cuban exile in Spain, received call in Madrid from Ray in P.R. regarding Ray's plans to assume power in Cuba. Garcia-Bango told Ray it was essential he come Madred before 25 June and return to San Juan in order to talk to a member of Cuban delegation for 10th Caribbean and CenAm games in P.R., prior to return of delegation to Cuba. Ray agreed to do so.

Ray enthusiastic over possibility of overthrowing Castro in next several months. Knows Garcia-Bango has bad reputation but feels he could prove useful. Also useful would be Garcia-Bango's brother, Jorge Garcia-Bango Dirube, who has more respectable reputation. Ray also state that he had received indirectly a message from Jose Llanusa Gobel and considers him a potential ally.

7. Harry Mahoney debriefs Ray, described in Memo for the Record dtd 8 July 1966. Mentions Julian Gallo at this time and Ray indicates he knows and respects him.

8. Memo No. 771, 1 Sept 1966 for: Chief, OPS Cuba/WH Division/DDP
   Attn: Mr. Harry Mahoney, Subject: MIG-21. Attaching communication from DIA authorizing $100,000 should MIG-21 operation succeed. Funds to come from Air Force escrow fund now held by CIA.
   (Note: Other memos refer to MIG which Ray said he knew a Cuban pilot would fly out of Cuba. Ray never comes through with any information that is usable, and finally says he cannot contact pilot)

9. Cable dtd4 Jan 69 CITE WH/Miami 2233
   Ref: Caracas 1490

AMOT reports on 9 Aug 68 indicating Ray plans to dissolve JURE and hold a Congress of Cuban exiles in 1969 to create a new organization to fight Castro. Ray working with Haitian groups and hopes, if new invasion of Haiti successful, he will be granted operational bases and radio station in Haiti.

10. Memo dtd Feb. 8, 1971 to Director, FBI from DD/P indicates that CIA has no current operational interest in Manuel Ray Rivero.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# SECRET

Betsy Palmer

April 5, 1978
Review of Manuel Rey Rivero files

1111066

Assortment of documents not in files at time review began on 3/29/78

16-10

1. 10 June 1966 Dispatch to Chief, WH, From Chief of Station, Santo Domingo. Subject: Haitian Exile Activities in the Dominican Republic.

02
EMHEFTY-1 provided information on Haitian exile activities. On May 30, 1966, FEMHEFTY was taken to a meeting of Godefray Moscoso at the Hotel Comercial.

(with)
EMHEFTY was taken to meeting by Gerard Max Lafontant, a Haitian Communist At the meeting, Lafontant told Moscoso that Manolo Rey had obtained explosives for him to use in the first invasion against Haiti and that Rey was now living in the Dominican Republic. Lafontant described Rey as a former collaborator of Fidel Castro, but was not now on sepaking terms with Castro. He said the Communist-oriented 14th of June Revolutionary Movement had on one occasion accused Rey of being a WOVAT agent, but this was not true. Rey can obtain explosives within 24 hours after the request is made.

CIA

* 2. Cable to Director from Hunt, August 25, 1960 states that Carrillo advised that FRD should keep an eye on new anti-Castro group being formed by Raul Chibas and Manuel Ray, Marcel Fernandez, Julio Durate and Jose Pepin Bosch. Chibas told Carrillo that Miro would follow Chibas line which would be neither join nor fight FRD but help if necessary. Bosch financing Chibas and Miro with initial credit. Results negative when Carillo invited new group to join FRD. Carrillo feels if new group succeeds, it will try to draw in Feliue Pazos and Ramon Barquin.

(Note date of cable)

* 3. Dispatch to Deputy Chief, WH/SA from Chief of Station, JMWAVE dated 14 April 1964 in Mexico, D. F. Lengthy and very rambling letter which, among many other things, states the story about Manuel Ray being closely associated with ALBIZU CAMPOS and friendly with Puerto Ricans who were working on the rennovation of the White House and the group that tried to assassinate Truman. (Pencilled notation of A. Rodriguez -- "Who is AMSHOT/1? Could he be agent provacateur? What is his access? Can we take him seriously?) Although postmarked in Mexico, AMSHOT apparently still in Cubal Not a Cuban citizen - wife in U.S. Trying to get a Mexican Visa.

A

4. Cable 21 May 1964 or information report.

On 21 May 1964, unidentified members of JURE stated that Manuel Ray Rivero entered Cuba successfully on 17 May 1964 and is still there. He departed from an unidentified embarcation point near Cuba at 3 am on 17 May and reached his destination by 10 am that day. Ray was accompanied by a labor leader believed to be JOSE COMEZ RODRIGUEZ and a 22 year old man who was to serve as Ray's communications clerk and guide.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET Betsy Palmer

Miscellaneous documents not in files
Page 2

11110662

5. Field Information Report on Cuba
   Subject: Lecture of Manuel Ray Rivero to Member of JURE'S Delegation from Tampa, Orlando, and Miami, Florida
   Date: 26 May 1965
   Source: A young Cuban exile trained in information collection.

Ray gaze opening lecture to 25-30 JURE delegates gathered in Miami on 22 May 1965. Ray claims JURE has men and equipment to win war of liberation in Cuba and reiterates that only an internal revolution will overthrow Castro. Said some arms had been left on a military base in the Dominican Republic and that, regardless of who takes over in the DR, the arms will be returned to JURE. Made an appeal for money so that organization would purchase the M/V VENUS, a 110-foot vessel registered in Panama. (Previous reporting on JURE's base and equipment in DR contained in the following: TDCSDB-315/00539-65, 16 Feb 65; TDCSDB-315/00301-65, 38 Jan 65; TDCSDB-315/00383-65, 27 Jan 65; and TDCSDB-315/00269-65, 28 Jan 65.

* 6. Field Information Report on Cuba
     Subject: Plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Infiltrate the Ranks of the Central Intelligence Agency
     Date: 30 April 1963
     Source: Former Rebel Army member (F) active in clandestine movements
     Appraisal of Content: 3

On 30 April 1963, Rogelio Cisneros, JURE Exec. Bd. member, said a meeting held in his home and Antonio Arias, propaganda chief in Miami, in attendance. Cosneros said it was mentioned that Ray had issued orders to infiltrate a trusted man into the CIA in order to learn details of any plans with regard to Cuba and if possible to infiltrate this man into Cuba. Cisneros said it might be possible to use contacts of George Volsky (sp?) who had CIA contacts. In regard to future propaganda, JURE plans to introduce thousands of anti-American phamphlets into Cuba, including Ray's manifesto against the U.S. government and the CIA.

7. Report on Cuba/Dominican Republic
   Subject: Urgent plan of Manuel Ray Rivero to Enter Cuba Involvement of Ray with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo and Haiti
   Date: 18 September 1964
   Source: Jose Garcia Valdez part of group of Cubam emigres trained in techniques of information collection.

Andrew St. George said Ray is attempting to drop himself into Cuba, regardless of risk, to regain his political prestige. Ray feels he cannot now compete with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, military leader of SNFE, and other revolutionary organizations, unless he enters Cuba. He wants to have same influence of others when Haiti leadership starts distributing bases to Cuban exiles and providing them help for their aid in overthowing Francois Duvalier (a trade off). According to St. George, the Haiti combine is composed of Gutierrez, Antonio Cuesta del Valle of Commandos L, and DRE members. Also, Rolando Masferrer Rojas on the inside of Haiti operations and has the most influence among the Haitians.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

Betsy Palmer

Miscellaneous documents no in files
Page 3

11110663

8. Information Report - Cuba/Dominican Republic
   Subject: Purchase of a Boston Whaler for Manuel Ray Rivero,
   Leader of the Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE)
   Date: 18 September 1964
   Source: Naturalized American citizen - formerly in shipping business
   in Cuba, well-trained and experienced debriefer

On 14 Sept 1964, a Miami yacht builder firm purchased a 13-foot six inch
Boston whaler for Ray. Purchaser, Angel Aixala Pertierra said he planned
to go to Santo Domingo to get permission to operate the whaler in Dominican
waters, and once this had been granted, would deliver the boat to Ray.
It was on Aixala's Catamaran ct 1208 D, that Ray made his ill-fated initial
attempt to enter Cuba. Aixala is not a member of JURE.

*9. Classified Message to Director, from Paris
Date: 8 June 1963

Ray and Emio Guede arrived in Paris and Ray contacted by Nauman on 7 June.
Reviewed plan for Franqus recruitment in place. Urged Ray to take
immediate action before his presence in Paris was leaked., Guede tries
to contact "Franqui by phone and on all occasions, phone answered by with
Sorel or her roomate, Helene Pulish (phonetic). Guede leaves message wach
time and on last call told franqui going to Brussels and may have already
left. On 7 June Guede sees Franqui at the opening of his exhibition and
talks to him. Franqui listened to him, but made no responses to his
veiled overatures. Guede surmizés Franqui not interested -- thinks he is
incapable of defending regime but not willing or capable of breaking with
it. Grovery and JERVAY met Ray. Feel this important re possible future
use Ray Europe. Pari support excellent. (C/S comment: HQS has reason
believe no obstacle convincing Ray push for Franqui return for period to be
eyes and ears anti-Castro conspiracy.)

10. Cable Report to Director, from Paris
    Date: 14 June 1963

Ray and party travel to Burssels on 11 June, and Ray continues his efforts
to recruit an agent in place for CIA. Contacts Guillamo Cabrera and
surmised Cabrera held back from a break due to his concern for a brother
inside who is ill. Ray asks Cabrera to arrange a meeting with Gustave Arcos
but Cabrera unable to do so since Arcos/f4f4f leaving for a few days. Ray
extends his trip. Contacts Nauman who tells Ray it is not possible to
resolve all the personal problems of those he has contacted and Ray must
show them the wisdom and practicality of working in place as a means of
eliminating the regime. Ray willing to settle for defection as he believes
this has an impact on the regime. Report states that Ray extremely active,
moves fast and purposefully, and has given impression of frank cooperation.
Has volunteered to assign a man to be station contact, but feels UMRUMBLE 2
is too young but should be aware of whomever is designated.

02

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

SECRET
Betsy Palmer

Miscellaneous documents not in files
Page 4

11. Information Cable to Director from JMWAVE
    Date: 5 November 1963
    1111064
    Subject: Unification Activities by Manuel Ray Rivero, 23 Oct 1963
    Source: A trained observer with access to wide variety of Cuban exiles.
    Source is known to most of his contacts as a channel to U.S.
    intelligence. Obtained information from Reinaldo Pico Ramon,
    officer in the Alianza de Trabajadores Cubanos (ATC, Alliance
    of Cuban Workers).

Pico was told by an unidentified informant, who is probably on the JURE
National Executive, that Luis Manuel Rodriguez, a former rebel army
lieutenant from Santiago de Cuba, and who was known as "Mama Dolores"
while a member of Brigade 2506, is serving as a Ray agent at Fort Benning,
Georgia. Individuals who are working with Rodriguez are SILAS CUERVO
CASTILLO and LUIS CLEMENTE BARCENA SERRANO, both former members of
Brigade 2506.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# SECRET

HSCA Notes

Barry Palmer

Oliver Stone Security Files

11110565

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

11110566

SECRET

July 6, 1978
Betsy Palmer

Guy Banister - 428810
Source of foreign intelligence
Banister approved on 10 Nov 1960 for contact use as a routine
Investigative Report-dist. 13 Sept 1960
Conducted in the event Guy Banister & Associates.
Sue. might be used as a cover mechanism.

Synopsis:

General business reputation is good, but his business is not very sound. He was incorporated on 21 Jan 1958 & is President, his wife Vice-Pres. + Sec-Treas was Joseph A. Oster.
Lien has been placed on company au
NSF Checks have been returned. Your informante interviewed: They advised Banister suspended as Asst Supt. of NOPD because he was involved in down. Town bar incident during Mardi Gras in March 1957. Suspension from NOPD lifted & Banister reassigned to position with no authority - he resigned 2 days later. Purchased a newspaper in Gretna, LA. which he had for 1 1/2 years, during which time he was charged with defamation of character.
Began private detective business & become associated with Kent Courtney, publisher of right-wing publication, Independent American.
Checks done on Banister, Oster & Gordon in course of investigation (credit & police).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

11110567 SECRET Betry Palmer
Guy Banister
page 2

Informant states there was publicity after Mardi Gras incident alleging Banister was "framed" by NOPD because he was uncovering corruption within the dept. N.O. Crime Commission defended Banister as did many other prominent groups in the area.

Banister has associated himself with Leander Perez, D.A. for Plaquemine Parish Perez is extremely right-wing & known to have denied voting rights to blacks.

Interview with official of nopd indicates Banister had good record, but began to publicly critic criticize his superiors. His incident at Absinthe Bar in 1957 was thoroughly investigated & 50 witnesses made statements. The majority stated Banister drunk.

Two other interviewees indicate bar incident exaggerated because Banister was getting too close to the bosses of police administration

Guy Banister Associates, Inc.

Investigation of Banister's firm for cover operation was to consider the following:

Nature of business; Scope & extent of operations; appearance & location of office; general business reputation; general organizational structure; names of principle officers.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# SECRET
7/10/78 * 7/11/7
111105Palmer

Office of Security - File Review
James Garrison - Vol. I - no notes. Mostly
newspaper clips & memos seen in DDP
files.

James Garrison - Vol. II - no notes necessary.

Garrison Case - Volume 1 - no notes

Volume # 2 - checks run on 213 individuals connected w/ Garrison
investigation - members of Truth or Consequences Squ,
Jurors, Grand Jury Commissions, Lawyers, Writers,
Salvadore. Pangeca - one of Shaw's defense
attorneys - but not Irwin Dymond-
not Mark Lane

@ 29 Sept 1967

Memo to Director/CI
From: Laurence R. Houston
Subject: Clay L. Shaw's Trial & the CIA
Page 5. No action on part of CIA can
be recommended at this time. We may be
in for some difficult decisions if Shaw
is convicted on information that could
be refuted by CIA.

Volume 3 - no notes


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

SECRET

11110553

Perez arrived in U.S. at Miami on 17 Aug 1961.

*04.*

Jose Ignacio Augusto Basco Bermuda

#214485

Memo dtd 14 Dec. 1967.

*04.*

Office of Security gave support & (Basco) in May 1960 by obtaining hotel preservation for him in N.Y. during time FRD was having a conference. (Basco was a founder of) FRD. Subject not implicated by Garrison but his friendship with Frank Baster & FRD merits present trace on him.

21 May 1965

*04*

(Basco) was of interest in 1960, granted OA on 8 Feb. 1961 & is currently under consideration for another OA.

Arnesto Rodriguez (Arnest Napoleon Rodriguez [y Gonzalez])

10 June 1960 DOB 15 Aug. 1891, Havana, Cuba

Subject: C-82375

#214833

Request investigation for subject's use in audio surveillance work in Cuba by WH Division under Project JMARC.

SECRET

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SECRET

7/10/78
*Palmer*

Office of Security - File Review.

Carlos Brinquier - *no notes*

John Koch Gene 11110552

1. Referred to FBI report dated 16 August 1963
   Title: Victor Dominador Espinosa Hernandez.
   Carlos Eduardo Hernandez Sanchez.
   John Koch Gene
   Acelo Pedroso.

2. 11 Sept 1961 - Request for Investigation/Name Check.
   Project: JMATE
   To: Dep. Director of Security
   From: Chief CI/ Operational Approval & Support Division
   Subject will be used by PA/PROP in across the board training for an infiltration operation

Manuel Gil Gomez (Gil) Manuel Orlando.
Investigative check on 28 Dec. 1960 for subjects use in AMOT project.

Duney Perez Alamo -201.I - 334081

10 Nov. 1965
File # 470-526.
General: At Miami, Fla - SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SECRET                                                            Palmer
7/10/78
11110551

Carlos Larraga Martinez                                       no-noter

Cuban Revolutionary Councия                                 • Prente Revolucionario
Democratico

@ 30 Дет. 1967
Subject: FRD - Created by Agency in May 1960.
Allegation: Houma bunker alleged to be CIA
Cache for munitione for Bay of Pigo
invasion. Sergio Arcacha Smith accused
bly Garrison of robbing this bunka.

Details: IRD created w/ Agency assistance, guidance
• financial support & Consisted of several
anth - Castro groups. Formed as political action,
propaganda & military init. Helfed recruit
Carried on program of social assistance for
2506 Brigade + their families

Circa Jan. 1961, the CRÉ formed to
Coordinate & direct FRD activities with
Agency & White House app support
FRD completely absorted by CRC in OCT. 194,
CRC had dreit access to Precedent
Kennedy & top White House andes

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

SECRET

7/7/78
Betty Palmer

Ricardo Anibal Morales Navarrete - Office of Security
(201-285-923)

Morales had been employed by CIA - per memo for Record, dtd 3 Jan 1969 by John K. Greaney, Asst Gen. Counsel.

11110555

17 Oct 1968 Cable
To: Director
Ref: A. JMCOBRA 1253
B. Director 39974

LNERGO plans to use Morales as prosecution witness against Bosch, et al.

LNERGO also has following on list for possible pick up:

Julio Aton Constanza Galan
Juli Tamayo
Hector Cornillot
Juan Garcia Cardenas
Omar Soto

Morales - additional information may be found in U.S. Army's Monthly Intelligence Summary dated 1 Sept 1968, p. 30. (HQS - First U.S. Army, Ft. Geo. G. Meade, Md.)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

SECRET                                                                                7/7/78
Palmer
②

③ 27 Aug 1965
Memo & File from Laurence J. Parr
From: Alien Affairs Staff
Subject: Ricardo Anibal Morales (Navarrete)
# 380858

On 8/26/65 Morales had returned to
U.S. having completed his assigned duties
for SOD, debriefed & is no longer of interest
to SOD. Hence no I-512 to be issued
for him to replace one which expires
9/25/65.

11110553

⑤ 10 Dec. 1964

Memo to file from W. M. Kuott
Morales (AAC-1142) - # 380858(c) and
Alberto Perez Martinez (AAC-1143) - # 223124(c)
returning US on PAA flight into Kennedy
International on 11 Dec. 1964. Braden, I &NS
advised & requested to have his N.Y. office keep
the I-94's from showing a N.Y. entry
& instead use following:

Paroled Section 212(d)(5) Dec 11, 1964
Indefinitely.
(Regarding assignment in Congo which
began circa 9/25/64. Morales stayed behind
to escort Perez - rest of group arrived at
Andrews AFB on 5 Dec 1964 on Air Force plane.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

SECRET

7/7/78
Palmer

Desmond Fitzgerald.
27 Feb. 1964 memo to Chief CI/OA from

Morales given lie detector test
because he had, according to FBI,
made derogatory remarks about CIA.

11110557

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

SECRET

Palmer
5/23/78 &
6/22/78

Office of Security file
on Rogelio Wenceslao Cisneros Diaz

FBI reference card.
Report dtd 15 Dec 72 Subj. Rogelio Wenceslao
Cisneros

Memo to files dtd 3 May 1961
From.: Chief, Alien Affairs staff /s/ Harry J Murphy
Cisneros is requested to be retained by CIA in Miami area.

Cisneros DPOB; #20/27 Camaguey, Cuba

Report of Investigation dtd 15 Feb. 1973
Case # 532-652 Cisneros, Rogelio Wenceslao
By: SA Leslie D. Ashe

RC admitted to U.S. on 12/22/62 as a permanent alien.

11110442

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

SECRET

6/22/78
B. Palmer

Laureano Batista Jella 111187 of Security, CIA.

1. 13 Dec. 1967.

Report-Subj LBF
OS Indices Results;
Copy of 22 Nov 1963 letter in Subjects
file signed as See for Military Affairs,
Exec. Committee, MDC. addressed to Major
General Bela K. Kiraly, President, Hungarian
Freedom Fighters Federation, Inc., offering
services of MDC & arranging meetings &
discussions with other anti-Castro organizations
and the Hungarian Freedom Fighters. The
Hungarian Freedom Fighters were agency
sponsored & Covert Action requesting
upon MDC before granting approval
for contact between two organizations,

CIA Connection: LBF granted Provisional
Operational Approval on 30 Dec. 195-9 and
Operational approval on 20 Feb. 1960 for
use as a PP Agent, Havana, Cuba.

2. Deletion: Extract from investigation of
   Justin McCarthy, Ltd. April 1961. Limited
   info included re one Laurino Batista.

3. Memo & files (undated) indicates CA's will
   give approval for Batista to meet with Kiraly

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

SECRET

6/22/78
Palmei

11110445

Biographical Data

Paneque (Batista) Victor manual

DPOB - 18 Sept 1929, Dao Arriba, Holguin, Cuba

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# SECRET 11110446

1/19/78

CIA. '77 Report Comments on Book V

- operation, started in '63 by Cuban exiles - given by K. Ad. to CIA.

TAB A: Organization for Review

Key Members tried in Cuba Port '65.

p23. AMLASH-not direct objective to Kill C; other operations were.

TABB: CIA Performance on the Inquiries

Airline Flights in Mex. City to Cuba.

Nov. 27 Flight Mexican tourist card issued in Tampa.

TABC: CIA Operations Against Cuba.

some exiles had support of CIA, as well as other elements of U.S. gov+(?)

Operation

2 Cuban exiles in U.S. former public official 2) larger meetings w/White House Advisory, state. To Own Purpose.

From w/in - recruit armed forces.

Discontinued; considered not secure.

Syndicate

Sturgis - how much could he have known?

S-T link Reported in press.

Grascena, FBI reports, say pills will be used in Nov. 1960. (18 Oct 1960 FBI memo to CIA).

CIA-no pills for delivery until 7 Feb. '61. (but had it been discussed?).

Rosselli contacts X, already receiving CIA support thru Cuban groups. R: original contact point for CIA w/MAFIA.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

Other Plots

Antonio Veciana - never CIA; Alpha 66 affiliated.
CIA refused his offers 3 times.

Agent messages in '61. - _not_ mentioned in Church
5 messages; 3-same plan.
1) 3 message plan: April a '61 in conjunction
   wloppearence at Spits Palace; sabotage electric plant.
2) 4 June '61
3) 3 May '66

TAB D AMLASH

CIA: no operational relationship as assassination plot during
JAK's life. Only materialized afterwards.

TABE: Materials forwarded to WCO & FBI.
TABF: All DELETED Mexico city coverage of LAO.
TABG: Newspaper stories - phone call tape.

67 I.G. Report

@ Prior to August '60. [Pre '61]

@Syndicate:

Phase I August 60- late April 61
Phase II April 62- Feb 63

Bissell
Edwards

I: Director of Security (CIA) contacts Mahen
O'Connell-case officer

Sept 14, 1960-N.y. Roselli-Maheu - O'Connell.
Roselli mentions "Gold" (Granrana).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

SECRET 11110443

Miami meeting ~ Sept 25, 1960. R-G-T.
[Casino's open until Sept 30, 1961.

Fall/Winter '60.

March - April 61 DRF

Moss: D.C. P.R. (relationship w/ Cellini sister).

Phase 2 off until post '62.

Harvey briefed in Feb. '61 in phase I.

"Executive Action Capability" ZRRIFLE.

QJWIN-principle asset, agent used for Congo operation.

Nov. 15,'61 (discussion of Harvey-Edwards).

ZRRIFLE - Syndicate plans start to converge.

QJWIN - Terminated by Luxembourg station -
April 21, 1964.

April '62. O'Connell phasing out

Harvey - Roselli meet, Reactivate operation
8-9th April, N.Y. perhaps Maheu there.

Meet in D.C. next week, then to Miami-
[Pills delivered ]

April 21, 1963. Harvey in Miami. Finds
Rosselli already in touch w/-
Cuban Exile Leader in Phase I.

Harvey requested Grancane be excluded.

No longer involved - no access since Cuba closed.

Roselli used "Macco"; (Garcia-Gomez; godoy)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

SECRET11110440

Harvey procures armaments for Roselli - Maceo

Leaves in on truck in Miami.

May '62-Sept '62. pills in Cuba - waiting for opportunity.

Sept '62-Jan '63.

Feb '63: operation called off.

June '63: Hervey-Roselli dinner in D.C.

SAM Papich calls Hervey mid-dinner - does he know guest's identity (R) - yes

Wiretapping Incident

Gravanon asks Maheeu to bug Bevan. (p57)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

Cuban Counter Revolutiong Hart forte
10 Oct 196 z

SECRET
11110450

Sence BOPC/R Orgagetur have incussed in number; dervared in offsetwenne Cuban 6-2 pastily mpresult; upusted. eg. so called Hugunt, 962 "uprising" permitted final decematen of unitne rente!

CRC-not realfa sir org but a political super spulture which 516 mtop mgor groups willing to follar quiten in Helinge for us. support of reich IRC puncijal Chance.

CRC orgy bun ar FRD & noe flll1201
- Leader Dr. Jose Men's Cardena cutrend.
- offlair in Breand, NY. NO, Wallytu, Farms youn Seppio Arcade, Vacina, Mars, save love favell to CA-Y Paven In goir sipput

CE-Corpuntes Feппий Carmetum w/ GRC cпened of 30 Cuban bumus bades sasse.
Pundat: Th. Julis Drag Reven
Flop cattle Dr. Guman ALVAREZ. Funter.
Rafail GARCIA Bango
Dr. Foncico ESCOBAR Qua
berge Me Doved THAN
Br R BEREGUISTAIN Reven
Dr. Antonis 61L upung


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

I. 30 November. Revolutay Mernnt

1111045:

Leader! Manolo Ray
Jesus FERNAME Hermantoy
Oswalt BETAN COURT Colllaso
Orlando Rodigy Pury
Cardor Rodilly Quesada
(leader of Mach 1942 into is far

II MRR

- Movement Fr Rolatry Rey
  Expuned cewo brat, mérez pun the

III DRE

left CRC in March 1142; family
part of MRR
Leaden! Heis FERNANDEZ Riau,
Joron Man SALVAT Repu

Sabotagee, bas word clandestine
US support bust stmetimes rewith us.
sportsns due to potly agpunt betrist opare

IV. RDR

Repererit in vigourd FRD new CRC
Maul Antnis de Vaien.
Vann-bike pod Ray, a
devig force blend BSQ
Varna betty cufregd JFKin
Augut 1202 Mradiant & oppond to raison

V MRP Mar May 1961 101 CRC
Joaquin Coding a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

SECRET

Was a hard-bittry sabotage outfit not reuprave ave fols or full. After Oct 01 neride onpere nm expa, trying to ubulld in us to ruk funds form CRE

# Truptl A
11110452

Aureliano Sanchez - who wan difunted for FRD punding of Jamona, sugguld Castro until 1900

VIE JNR Natal Way Unaty,
Albuto all Jun Mera MOE, Imano FERNANDOMY, MAIN, Malmo DA VARNARDA, Jahmin GARCIA Ciller

UTE TURF Mendes Ray
Taher us support list wants to pin cuda by cuban.
Not vay effore

# MDM Marti Denciatic Mewernt.

Integral men of UR
DUARTE but, mend the, Tomas PRIETO Ratu, Victor PANEQUE

Avil u2, DUARTE in us for military mabull for reservue. Datellypur in 6-2, osnut prop ship movents


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

W Masonic Clanner Mont.
Planning to assasinate Castes on
Auguz but thwarted by DRE attits in ever

11. MRAC/HO
    Danul Hamburgo TARAFA Mahade
- military distichon of imment upome
- Claim VARONA pred Badulin 15.

12. MRRC. 11110453
    Splinth quacyp of MRR-radical.
    Pedw Diaz Lary (Widem 1142

13. OH Autbute Orquet.
- Prio Socarves & DE VARONA
- Pryne- to ery on sabotage

14. Aljha ell
    Orgoydin in Punto Rees in 1962. Comman
    attests & fends colllon in PR mull covert
    pulstay operators finn Moni.
    thas shan chauthe seculus compare muntater
    High puure colllon effort.

Antonio Vasna

15. OESA Organ of Muti-Con, Secut Any
- mappa le ngan; ogul to CRC
  Joe Ramon FAYAD, Jolis TUR
  Julio DARNAS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SECRET

1111045-1 Julio CAR CERAN

Traininy oups in bustineday

rmaße Fla

* 19. S.FNE. Second Natl Front of the country

- gueulla listat org.

Ilay GUITERREZ Minojo, aro

A-66 mulity commatory bots groups ere joined secretly.

"the thief" in the police wath Mendes RAY, SANCHEZ, Hrings & EZC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

SECRET
11110455

Roselli Tab C

Dall Cy - in 24 August
- info on 12 Cuban
- info on 3 prob. 45 citizen
  Ten general quiten - some of which my by arsweelte in ferburg before black
  -declassification of 2 documents

Detector Julio Ojeda i
Clas Zabyalek
Paul Daly & Carlton Buell FBI
Mikemodym, Rick tndipicker
mike Epstein

1. Ramon Don Westervery Domingan
   (billed) born 2 May 1936 or 5 Feb 36
   if they a boat manufacture able to travel inside.
2. Rolenko Maglinen, 12 Jan 1918
3. Lucimo Nieves (sbot
4. Jose De La Tormente (sbot
5. Jose Quintana
6. 3 Oct 1945; replied y mange to Rosa
7. Joaquin Antonio Cortijo 10-Janick
8. Manola Artemica
9. AM L LASH
   10 - 3 Cuban in Rulle senfun
   2 of 3 nemes in a Dec 1978 mio.

Ful Black, 25t Mugn, Joe Shure

![handwritten notes]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

I mimo D. 1 Dec. 1970
SECRET
to John Roddie
from DCD Am DOS. Daly Rmsilly try
Blend mms, 9 try 76. Sof John Roddie

14 March 1974 11110450

Frank O'Mally refused of Hount to Bob
Mullen of Mullen Company.

Huyken were client of Mullen - 8 z men
Connected in 40s w/ Full disclosure committee.

O'Mally had reffed Hount to Aiken
to get guidance on someone who might be
interested in Sunni public relations talents.

No relation between Agency, Mullen/Hughes.

O'Mally appealed of Hount to offer
an intended burrying locks & surreptions
vity shells for Hughes in far lyr.
(also a monitoring a listening device)
Hyman C. Ames referred to Hunt but
dichiel job.

Hunt also reguirld O'Mally to "sweep"
fora confidential client.

Lengner interested in wife, supplied of very for
Admir, circa 1871, w/ effects to obtain
blackmail to put info in peepuls in Democrat funding.
White House concern w/ the subject of Indian comment tattoo pho.
Longe refused done ton May 18, 1962
mvw the Sheffield Edwards && metyl


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

SECRET

C/A bermal Couet ut AFKui
quastry but guy sulfona agent hancona

Houston could not recall info sent to
Which Horse Corca 1271. only offseals wts
Inen wire Fennds, Osbum, 18mleton, Rocca

11110457

SECRET
i


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

815-688-4103
John Staimiro
Fed Pub. Def


FLC
SECRET
Liberation Ary of cuta
Rolando Mosquer o mithell werbell
1 Invasin of Haute) Cthu
Dec 1966

11110453
March 1963 MIRO Cardona resegred
ACRC' Dr. Antonio MACEO high ung cre
alive for atinie but gooy destayd is June
1963 follry a fake ORC emmmmpia clan
Cuban lendinge iis que 63.
i
Action groups embisterd ver quindia
us policies & took somme stys A nere to inter
Countries.


Offer 225-4624 bury 2 Copies of puston


SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# 77 Report SECRET

AMTRUNH

FRD Rpt 14 August 64 re bante Troy.

Pricilla Balyer Kune

Oct 1, 1963 enfo fun territ

Bribery, record in Headquater

on 9 Oct. - dessennated on

100 of Dept of State, FBI, Navy & INS

Telephone calls - 27, 28, Sept, 1 Oct

3 Oct (not LHD)

11110453

LUC 3157

Washington Post 13 Nov. 76.

2-Aug 76 Memo relating w/ JR, Caysbury, LTD

100463

16 July 1961

Moran, Maun Garcia Kohly

contacted w/ 50 mill in play Cuban pesos

to deposit outside country.

Trans as Chief of the Branch Dd led

Records secured 1900 under the

Chief & DC of the 6 Remach sector then

Regarding Witness from TRUMP or

2000 Turtle Club.

Cuba Desk Aug 1979 based on traces of
the name, furnished of Castro to McCovern

Sept 63. AMTRUNK had 3 well placed
sources in Cuba; one close to ROMASH

Guan, Trego & MMMASH recruited in 65

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

SECRET

Jad Subeo Volay suspect an
Chun infinits yet with botto
site was by Monstrunter heto heure
Tentatens opon is that true could
brave berma Cubert phonphan tog with tease

My Pally Wus Gaul Meshil gustes
Sture's

11110460

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)