# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10318

RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

![photo of document release information] Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10318

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 08/15/77

PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BROWN, WILLIAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

BROWN, William
Name of Employee

Address

Address

Phone Number

Position Title

Position Number Level Step

OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
1978
YEAR

DATE OF APPOINTMENT
8-15-77

ANNUAL LEAVE
CATEGORY
1.0
1.5
2.0

BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR

Annual Sick
Leave Leave
4 4

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE
Years Months

| Month | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9 | 10 | 11 | 12 | 13 | 14 | 15 | 16 | 17 | 18 | 19 | 20 | 21 | 22 | 23 | 24 | 25 | 26 | 27 | 28 | 29 | 30 | 31 | Accrued This Month Annual Leave | Accrued This Month Sick Leave | Available This Month Annual Leave | Available This Month Sick Leave | Used This Month Annual Leave | Used This Month Sick Leave | Balance at Close of Month Annual Leave | Balance at Close of Month Sick Leave | Employee Initials |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Jan. |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | / | / |   |   |   |   | 5 | 5 |
| Feb. |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | / | / |   |   |   |   | 6 | 6 |
| Mar. |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | / | / |   |   |   |   | 7 | 7 |
| Apr. |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | / | / |   |   |   |   | 8 | 8 |
| May |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | / | / |   |   |   |   | 9 | 9 |
| June |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | X |   |   |   | X | X | X | X | X | X |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | X | X |   | / | / | 10 | 10 | 3 |   | 7 | 10 |
| July |   |   |   |   | X | X | X |   |   |   | X | X | X | X | X |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | / | / | 8 | 8 | 11 | 8 | 0 | 11 |
| Aug. |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
| Sept. |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
| Oct. |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
| Nov. |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
| Dec. |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |

Terminated of 7/15/78

= 0.5 day annual leave

= 1.0 day annual leave

S = 0.5 day sick leave
or
S = 1.0 day sick leave

A = 0.5 day administrative leave
or
A = 1.0 day administrative leave

U = 0.5 day unauthorized absence
or
U = 1.0 day unauthorized absence

= 0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employee's Signature Date
(if employee refuses to sign, state reason below)

Chief's Signature Date

Approved:

Clerk of the House Date

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

EXHIBIT I

NW 88326
DocId:32243284 Page 3

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| :--------------------------------- | :------------- |
| William Brown                       | 7/15/78        |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action                                                                                                    |
| :----------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 098-20-3182                    | ☐ Appointment<br>☐ Salary Adjustment<br>☐ Title Change<br>☒ Termination (At close of business on effective date)<br>☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business______________) |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |                                                                                                                 |
| Assassinations                 |                                                                                                                 |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| :------------- | :------------------- |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☒ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level ______ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date July 7 1978

LOUIS STORES, CHAIRMAN

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Signature of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official) (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

| Office of Finance use only:   |                     |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------ |
| Office Code ________          | ID ________         |
| Monthly Annuity $_______ .00 as of | Benefits ________   |
|                              | Payroll ________    |

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee...........

NW 88326
DocId:32243284 Page 4

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)
Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
|---|---|
| William Brown | 8/15/77 |
| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action |
| 098 20 3182 | Appointment |
| Employing Office or Committee | Salary Adjustment |
| Assassinations Committee | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
|---|---|
| Staff Investigator | $24,000.00 |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number ____________ If applicable, Level ________ Step ______

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 16,1977 , 19

LOUIS STOKES
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration..

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $______.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243284 Page 5

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: Professor G. Robert Blakey

FROM: Cliff Fenton

DATE: August 15, 1977

RE: Recommendations for employment - William Brown

It is recommended that Mr. William Brown be hired immediately to the position of Senior Investigator at a salary of $24,000 per annum. Having obtained the highest rank of Detective First Grade in the New York City Police Department, Detective Bureau, his experience has been extensive in all areas of criminal investigation.

Mr. Brown's long range of experience will be beneficial to our investigation and will be an asset to the JFK Task Force.

APPROVED: Kenneth D. Klein
Assistant Deputy Chief Counsel

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress. (Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

![Date]

NW 88326
Docld:32243284 Page 7

---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)