# Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10361
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 6
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326
DocId:32243327 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10361

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO:

TITLE :

DATE : 07/28/77
PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
GRANT, KENNETH G.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 88326
DocId:32243327 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Kenneth G. Grant                  | 8/23/77                                              |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 099 20 0966                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title     | Gross Annual Salary |
| ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Staff Investigator | $24,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 35th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________________ If applicable, Level_____Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

| Date         | August 31 1977 |
| ------------ | -------------- |
| Louis Stokes |                |
| Chairman     |                |

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

| Office of Finance use only:    |
| ------------------------------ |
| Office Code                    |
| Monthly Annuity $_________ .00 |

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243327 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

Aug. 23rd
Ken Grant
what is his
status?

Tom Fehner
Howarth-

NW 88326
DocId:32243327 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

![signature]

![signature]

NW 88326
DocId:32243327 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

Forwarding Address:

Mr. Kenneth G. Grant
855 Pepperidge Road
Westbury, New York, 11590


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Congress of the United States
Committee on International Relations
House of Representatives

Kenneth G. Grant

099.20.0966

$24,000

Staff Investigator 1.4FK

7/28/77

NW 88326
DocId:32243327 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:..

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Kenneth G. Grant                  | July 28, 1977                                        |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 099 20 0966                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title     | Gross Annual Salary |
| ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Staff Investigator | $24,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: StaffClerical or Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th_Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

| Date         |     |
| ------------ | --- |
| July 29 1977 |     |

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committee's must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee.

![Alt at Adm. Comm. 7/29/77]

NW 88326
DocId:32243327 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

✓ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

☐ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress. (Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

July 28, 1977

![Date]
NW 88326
DocId:32243327 Page 9


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)