# Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10147-10258
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

> Released under the John F.
> Kennedy Assassination
> Records Collection Act of
> 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
> Case#:NW 88326 Date:
> 2025

NW 88326
DocId:32277339 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Date: 07/08/95
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10147-10258
RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 11/21/77
PAGES : 5
SUBJECTS : ROBINSON, BARBARA JEAN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/26/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Box 3

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32277339 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date   |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| Barbara J. Robinson               | December 1, 1978 |

| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 579-58-9953                                | ☐ Appointment                                                       |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ☑ Salary Adjustment                                                 |
| Assassinations                             | ☐ Title Change                                                      |
|                                            | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date)              |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending |
|                                            | close of business____________________)                              |
|                                            | *Specify Date*                                                      |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
|                | $16,000.00           |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee
  plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2.☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.255 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number________If applicable, Level_____Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date December 11, 1973

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name and title of above official) (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code________________ ID______

Monthly Annuity $__________.00 as of__________ Benefits_______

Payroll______ (Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32277339 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------- |
| Barbara J. Robinson                        | 12/31/78       |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action |
| 579-58-9953                                |                |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |                |
| Assassinations                             |                |


*   Appointment
*   Salary Adjustment
*   Title Change
*   Termination (At close of business on effective date)
*   Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business _ _ _ Specify Date _ _ _)

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
|                |                      |

*If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1.  Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.
2.  Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.
3.  Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date January 2, 1979

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name and title of above official) (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code ID

Benefits

Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of Payroll

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32277339 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                              |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Barbara J. Robinson                        | November 21, 1977                                                                           |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                              |
| 579-58-9953                                | ☑ Appointment                                                                               |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ☐ Salary Adjustment                                                                         |
| Assassinations                             | ☐ Title Change                                                                              |
|                                            | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                      |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business _ _ _ |
|                                            | Specify Date                                                                                |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
| Researcher     | $15,000              |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ If applicable, Level _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Step _ _ _ _

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ November 22 19 77

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title-If Member, District and State)
(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

Monthly Annuity $ _ _ _ _ _ _.00 as of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

ID _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

Benefits _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

Payroll _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

(Revised: August 1 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32277339 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel dem.

DATE: November 17, 1977

RE: Barbara Jean Robinson

This is to advise you that Barbara Jean Robinson has accepted a position as a researcher on the Martin Luther King Task Force, effective November 21, 1977, at an annual salary of $15,000.

Please extend every possible assistance to Ms. Robinson.

NW 88326
Docld:32277339 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

[x] I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

[ ] I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

![signature of employee]

Barbara
Signature of Employee

11/21/77
Date

NW 88326
Docld:32277339 Page 7


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)