2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

3/24/78

HARDWAY+LEAP

Randall interview

1951 - joined FE division

Junior desk

11/55 [(Jakarta)(Stat Cover)]

5/58 desk chief Indonesia

12/59

mid/61 Staff off. FI / FE

9/41 [(Tokyo)] until

in [(Tokyo)]

St. OFF in Station (Branch chief - coordi of foreign clandestine intelligence of M.I.)

C.O. for some outside work - one or 2 little ops.

senior supervisor

OTS.

6/65 - Domes. Ops Div.

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

9/70 oo 71 - C.O. in DOO
operating in U.S.

7/74: FR (foreign resources)

1975: FOIA officer for DDO

presently in Information Services Staff

was not DCO's
first [Pete Wheeler]

Marcia Febatman Jun '64.

300 people there:
didn't really know all the people.

Station was spread out
over at least [different] locations @ [different] [covers.]

[cover.]
was under [air force]

[cover.]
lived & worked on a
military base! (army or A.F)

in 1963 office moved to [H & (phonetic)]

Also Joint MI Staff


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SEP 28 '98 10:46AM P.5

3

11/63- living on (Harbor
4
Mundo)+ reporting too
[EU + H.U.]#210
Staytion was divided
by area (target) divisions.
And China branch.
Finance people
DOS + T office
SR. there but physical
separate & different cover:
some SUPPORT & LOGISTICS

dramatic decrease in
# of CO's tween 61-65
24. [300]to[100] no personal
    knowledge of reason.

1961 - [60] CO's (guess)
1965 - [70]

person's in station to
knowledge all projects
+ agents & MI operations.
  Randall would know
  all MI that they would
  inform of - they often
  CIA sometimes
  caught them
  1961 - MI wasn't reporting
  ANYTHING- R was brought there to correct

GIN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SEP 28 '98 10:47AM P.6

All CO's had access.

TRUE NAME

they did maintain
Cand file source
regestar for CIA +
MI agents.

CO's
DCOS would know all
Chief of Oges if they
had one.

would true name to
crypto file in some
form as all stations do.

source index reported tor the
YES. - in some form.

there had to be HQ
approval before
utiliging agent.

there were written
guidlines from HQ
for exceptions

targets included in
agent file. access agents
would be.

---

UNSURE thinks would probably have to ClEAR AS high INCPAC but familiar @ proceedutes!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

5

can't rember nature of
individual (201) belines.
system on individuals.

cand file would lead to
the CO if you got a hit.
CO would have en project
file & part of it would
be on personnel.

first time heard allega.
LHO was an agent:

1975- FOIA barned
of allegations of "assassi-
nations kooks!"

Wilcott:
remember him vaguely
as finance clerk it
[En CHA] quiet individual.

can't remember any
Associations or any of
Wilcotts duties.

Jack Randall was Chief
of Finance


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

6

Wilcott could have been disgersing off &
if it was would probably have discussed project/expenses w him.

11/22/63:
maid told him news.

First heard it was LHO
he was ex marine
stationed in Japan:

answer: 1975 FOIA duties.
I never heard anything about it in Tokyo.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)