# Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10164
RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 18
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 8

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

> [Figure] Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326
Docld:32244106 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10164

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 11/08/76
PAGES : 24

SUBJECTS :
HSCA; ADMINISTRATION
THORNELL, JOAN TALBERT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 3.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date:08/20/93
Page:1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

July 11, 1977

Mrs. Joan Thornell
Special Assistant to the Treasurer
Office of the Treasurer of the
United States
Washington, D.C. 20220

Dear Mrs. Thornell:

I am sorry you feel that you were not treated fairly upon termination of your services with the Committee.

When I received your letter, I asked Tom Howarth to give me a memorandum outlining the terms of your settlement. Enclosed is a copy.

I am sure that after you read the memorandum, you will agree that the Committee was more than fair, especially in light of the fact there was no official leave policy at the time and thus, no obligation to pay any terminating compensation at all.

As to your main area of concern, the one-day break in service, Mr. Howarth's memorandum points out that such a break has no effect whatsoever on the transfer of your benefits.

I wish you every success in your new position with the Administration.

Sincerely,

Louis Stokes
Chairman

LS/thj
cc: Honorable Walker E. Fauntroy, M.C.

NW 88326
Docld:32244106 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MEMORANDUM

TO: CHAIRMAN STOKES

FROM: THOMAS HOWARTH
BUDGET OFFICER

DATE: JUNE 14, 1977

RE: JOAN T. THORNELL, LETTER RE LEAVE

Mrs. Thornell left at the close of business
on Friday, May 13, 1977. As the Committee had no leave
policy at that time, she made her termination effective
Sunday, May 15, 1977, at my suggestion, so that she
would receive two days extra in pay.

Mrs. Thornell began employment November 8,
1976 and left May 13, 1977. Under the Clerk of the
House's leave policy, she would be entitled to 5 days,
no credit being given for a fraction of a month when
hired or a fraction of a month when terminated.

The Clerk's policy further states there
are no provisions to permit reimbursement to an employee
upon termination for any accumulation of leave. However,
to the extent possible and practicable, every effort
should be made to consider such accumulation when sub-
mitting a recommendation for termination.

Twelve Committee Staff Members with a total
of 42 days accumulated leave who have terminated, in-
cluding one who terminated the same day as Mrs. Thornell,
were given no credit for their leave because the
Committee had no policy at that time.

This fact and the fact that Mrs. Thornell
was paid for six days past May 13, in my opinion, dis-
credits Mrs. Thornell claim to "the punitive nature of
the decision." The facts clearly show that Mrs.
Thornell was given special consideration.

NW 88326
Docld:32244106 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMORANDUM
CHAIRMAN STOKES
JUNE 14, 1977
PAGE 2

For the record, Acting Chief Counsel Al Lewis was paid for no accumulated leave. After Mr. Lewis left the Committee, he was kept on the payroll long enough to recover his back salary which I understand was the Committee's request. (Mrs. Thornell had already recovered her back salary.)

As to Mrs. Thornell's break in service, I have been told by the Finance Office that such a break has no effect whatsoever on the transfer of her benefits.

cc: Honorable Walter E. Fauntroy, M.C.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

![Department of the Treasury Seal]

# THE TREASURER OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20220

May 27, 1977

Hon Louis B. Stokes
Chairman
Select Committee on Assassinations
U. S. House of Representatives
Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Chairman Stokes:

The circumstances of my departure from the Committee staff have saddened me because of the following:

On May 6, 1977, in writing (enclosed) I advised the then-Acting Chief Counsel and Staff Director, Alvin B. Lewis, Jr., of my intention to leave the staff as of May 15, 1977 plus whatever vacation time I had accrued since my date of entry to service, November 8, 1976.

Since there was no formal leave policy established by the Committee at the date of my notice and since I was aware of leave being extended to the Acting Chief Counsel who was also leaving service at about the same time, I began making inquiries about my own accrued leave.

On Thursday, May 12, Thomas Howarth, the Budget Officer, advised me verbally that he had not yet cleared with you the rate of leave to be extended to me in days accrued per month, but he thought that a rate of one day per month was going to be approved. On that basis, he calculated that I would be allowed 5 1/2 or 6 days of leave.

When I began a new appointment with a Federal agency on Monday, May 23, I called Mr. Howarth from the new personnel office to establish my date of termination in order to comply with the Federal law which prohibits Federal employees from receiving payment from more than one Federal source at a time. In other words, I was attempting to clear the date of May 23 as a starting date for the new employment.

At that time, Mr. Howarth advised that I had been terminated on May 19, based on a calculation of leave beginning May 14 for a total of 6 days -- which included counting weekend days in the leave period. At the time of our initial conversation, how-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

- 2 -

ever, I was not advised that weekend days would be counted in the calculation of the leave period.

He further advised that since the House payroll system is based on a 30-day month, for purposes of calculating a termination date he counted weekend days, whereas a vacationing employee who would be returning to work after vacation would not have weekend days counted. (I checked with the Committee on House Administration and learned that though each Committee establishes its own leave policy, it is unusual to penalize a terminating employee by counting in weekend days.)

Inasmuch as there was no written leave policy I had no way of anticipating his method of calculating leave. And because of the punitive nature of the decision I have suffered a break in service which may affect seriously my transfer of benefits from the House of Representatives to my new employment. Had I been aware of his method of calculating leave, my dates of departure from the Committee, obviously, would have been different.

I hope that you will review the calculation of my date of departure and act swiftly to rectify the situation to allow my termination date from the Committee to be set at Friday, May 20, 1977, which would reflect *5 working days* leave from the Committee.

I have already acted to begin employment at the Department of the Treasury as of May 23. I gladly forfeit the 6th vacation day which would have been May 23.

Thank you in advance for your kind attention to this matter and I look forward to hearing from you soon.

Sincerely,

![signature]

Joan Talbert Thornell
Special Assistant to the
Treasurer-Designate

cc: Hon. Walter E. Fauntroy, M.C.

Enclosure

NW 88326
Docld:32244106 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

June 16, 1977

Mrs. Joan Talbert Thornell
3175 Apple Road, N.Ε.
Washington, DC. 20018

Dear Joan:

I want you to know how much the Committee and I appreciate your service and how much we regret that you will no longer be a member of the Staff.

You have our best wishes always.

Sincerely yours,

Louis Stokes
Chairman

LS: tle

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

May 6, 1977

MEMORANDUM

To : Alvin B. Lewis, Jr.

From : Joan Talbert Thornell

It has been my pleasure to serve as your *special* Assistant for Administrative Projects. Your recent assignments in the areas of affirmative action and staff review are nearing completion.

I will be leaving the staff of the Select Committee on Assassinations as of May 15, 1977 (plus any vacation time that may have accrued to me since November, 1976).

I wish you all the best in your new undertakings and I have appreciated your sensitivity during a difficult time.

Thanks.

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

MEMORANDUM

TO:
CHAIRMAN STOKES

FROM:
THOMAS HOWARTH
BUDGET OFFICER

DATE:
JUNE 14, 1977

RE:
JOAN T. THORNELL, LETTER RE LEAVE

Mrs. Thornell left at the close of business on Friday, May 13, 1977. As the Committee had no leave policy at that time, she made her termination effective Sunday, May 15, 1977, at my suggestion, so that she would receive two days extra in pay.

Mrs. Thornell began employment November 8, 1976 and left May 13, 1977. Under the Clerk of the House's leave policy, she would be entitled to 5 days, no credit being given for a fraction of a month when hired or a fraction of a month when terminated.

The Clerk's policy further states there are no provisions to permit reimbursement to an employee upon termination for any accumulation of leave. However, to the extent possible and practicable, every effort should be made to consider such accumulation when submitting a recommendation for termination.

Twelve Committee Staff Members with a total of 42 days accumulated leave who have terminated, including one who terminated the same day as Mrs. Thornell, were given no credit for their leave because the Committee had no policy at that time.

This fact and the fact that Mrs. Thornell was paid for six days past May 13, in my opinion, dis- credits Mrs. Thornell claim to "the punitive nature of the decision." The facts clearly show that Mrs. Thornell was given special consideration.

NW 88326
Docld:32244106 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

MEMORANDUM
CHAIRMAN STOKES
JUNE 14, 1977
PAGE 2

For the record, Acting Chief Counsel Al Lewis was paid for *no* accumulated leave. After Mr. Lewis left the Committee, he was kept on the payroll long enough to recover his back salary which I understand was the Committee's request. (Mrs. Thornell had already recovered her back salary.)

As to Mrs. Thornell's break in service, I have been told by the Finance Office that such a break has no effect whatsoever on the transfer of her benefits.

cc: Honorable Walter E. Fauntroy, M.C.

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

![seal of the department of the treasury, 1789]

THE TREASURER OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20220

May 27, 1977

Hon Louis B. Stokes
Chairman
Select Committee on Assassinations
U. S. House of Representatives
Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Chairman Stokes:

The circumstances of my departure from the Committee staff have saddened me because of the following:

On May 6, 1977, in writing (enclosed) I advised the then-Acting Chief Counsel and Staff Director, Alvin B. Lewis, Jr., of my intention to leave the staff as of May 15, 1977 plus whatever vacation time I had accrued since my date of entry to service, November 8, 1976.

Since there was no formal leave policy established by the Committee at the date of my notice and since I was aware of leave being extended to the Acting Chief Counsel who was also leaving service at about the same time, I began making inquiries about my own accrued leave.

On Thursday, May 12, Thomas Howarth, the Budget Officer, advised me verbally that he had not yet cleared with you the rate of leave to be extended to me in days accrued per month, but he thought that a rate of one day per month was going to be approved. On that basis, he calculated that I would be allowed 5 1/2 or 6 days of leave.

When I began a new appointment with a Federal agency on Monday, May 23, I called Mr. Howarth from the new personnel office to establish my date of termination in order to comply with the Federal law which prohibits Federal employees from receiving payment from more than one Federal source at a time. In other words, I was attempting to clear the date of May 23 as a starting date for the new employment.

At that time, Mr. Howarth advised that I had been terminated on May 19, based on a calculation of leave beginning May 14 for a total of 6 days -- which included counting weekend days in the leave period. At the time of our initial conversation, how-

NW 88326
Docld:32244106 Page 12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

- 2 -

ever, I was not advised that weekend days would be counted in the calculation of the leave period.

He further advised that since the House payroll system is based on a 30-day month, for purposes of calculating a termination date he counted weekend days, whereas a vacationing employee who would be returning to work after vacation would not have weekend days counted. (I checked with the Committee on House Administration and learned that though each Committee establishes its own leave policy, it is unusual to penalize a terminating employee by counting in weekend days.)

Inasmuch as there was no written leave policy I had no way of anticipating his method of calculating leave. And because of the punitive nature of the decision I have suffered a break in service which may affect seriously my transfer of benefits from the House of Representatives to my new employment. Had I been aware of his method of calculating leave, my dates of departure from the Committee, obviously, would have been different.

I hope that you will review the calculation of my date of departure and act swiftly to rectify the situation to allow my termination date from the Committee to be set at Friday, May 20, 1977, which would reflect 5 *working days* leave from the Committee.

I have already acted to begin employment at the Department of the Treasury as of May 23. I gladly forfeit the 6th vacation day which would have been May 23.

Thank you in advance for your kind attention to this matter and I look forward to hearing from you soon.

Sincerely,

![signature]

Joan Talbert Thornell
Special Assistant to the
Treasurer-Designate

cc: Hon. Walter E. Fauntroy, M.C.

Enclosure

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Joan Talbert Thornell             | 5/19/77                                              |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 579 54 1505                       |                                                      |
| Employing Office or Committee     |                                                      |
| Assassinations                    |                                                      |
|                                   | Appointment                                          |
|                                   | Salary Adjustment                                    |
|                                   | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                |                     |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number __________ If applicable, Level __________ Step __________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date May 16, 19 77

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $___________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Joan Talbert Thornell             | 5/15/77        |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action                                         |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| 579 54 1505                     | ☐ Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee   | ☐ Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                  | ☑ Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                |                     |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level______ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date May 10 1977

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________

Monthly Annuity $________.00

NW 88326-
Docld:32244106 Page 15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Joan Talbert Thornell             | 5/15/77                                              |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 579 54 1505                       |                                                      |
| Employing Office or Committee     |                                                      |
| Assassinations                    |                                                      |
|                                   | Appointment                                          |
|                                   | Salary Adjustment                                    |
|                                   | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information:)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                |                     |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff- Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete tem below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date May 10 1977

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

![signature]
NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 16


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                         |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Joan Talbert Thornell             | 5/9/77                                                 |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                         |
| 579 54 1505                       | ☐ Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | ☑ Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                | $25,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff- ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number __________ If applicable, Level __________ Step __________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date__________ May 10, 1977

Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code __________

Monthly Annuity $__________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 17

![handwritten data] FO5/11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION-FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Joan Talbert Thornell             | 4/1/77         |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action                                       |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| 579 54 1505                     | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee   | ☑ Salary Adjustment                                  |
| Assassinations                  | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                | $47,500             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff- Clerical or Professional.
2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number ____________ If applicable, Level ________ Step ________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date ________ April 29, 1977

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code ________
Monthly Annuity $ ________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 18


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
or Ballpoint Pen)
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)  | Effective Date                                       |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Joan Talbert Thornell              | 2-1-77                                               |
| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action                                       |
| 579-54-1505                        | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee      | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Select Committee on Assassinations | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                | $15,375.            |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 11 of 95 Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_____ If applicable, Level_____ Step_____

I certify that this authorization is not in... violation of 5 U.S.C... 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date 2-28--77 19

Henry B. Gonzalez
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 19


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)  | Effective Date |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Joan Talbert Thornell              | 1/3/77         |
| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action |
| 579 54 1505                        |                |
| Employing Office or Committee      |                |
| Select Committee on Assassinations |                |

Appointment

Salary Adjustment

Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                | $16,250.            |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 11 of 95 Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level_______ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date______________________, 1977

Henry B. Gonzalez
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:____________________________________________________

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code________

Monthly Annuity $__________.00

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 20 Copy for Initiating Office or Committee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)  | Effective Date                                       |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Joan Talbert Thornell              | 11/8/76                                              |
| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action                                       |
| 579 54 1505                        | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee      | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Select Committee on Assassinations | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title    | Gross Annual Salary |
| ----------------- | ------------------- |
| Special Assistant | $25,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 1557 of 94th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C... 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date November 8 1976

Thomas N. Downing, Chairean
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Select Committee on Assassinations
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and. for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $__.00

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32244106 Page 21


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees

FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not related ✓

I am related by the following relationship

![signature of employee]
Signature of Employee

![date]
Date

NW 88326
Docld:32244106 Page 22


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

JOAN TALBERT THORNELL

122 Sixth Street, S. E.
Washington, D. C. 20003 579.54-1505 8 Nov
543 - 7785

EDUCATION & TRAINING

Valedictory, 1956, Dunbar High School; Washington, D.C.
A.B., Psychology, 1960, George Washington University; Washington, D.C.
Professional Training in Dance Therapy, 1958-61, St. Elizabeths Hospital

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE (Chronological)

6/76 -
8/76
Editorial and Research Consultant to the Joint Committee on Arrangements for Commemoration of the Bicentennial for its dual project (publication and exhibit for U.S. Capitol), "Black Americans in Congress, 1870-1976"

9/75 -
6/76
Fundraising Consultant for The Black Student Fund -- a scholarship and service organization to increase black enrollment in independent schools in the Washington metropolitan area.

10/75 -
2/76
Planning Consultant to the National Council of Organizations for Children and Youth for their first national conference

4/73 -
2/75
Assistant to the President for Special Projects
The National Urban Coalition
M. Carl Holman, President
Planning national and local conferences and meetings, awards events and other special projects; designing public relations strategy; liaison with the Chairman, Walter N. Rothschild, Jr.

11/72 -
2/73
Consultant, Office of Congressman Charles C. Diggs, Jr.
Researching formation of new House Committee on the District of Columbia; arranging ceremony to cite Congressman Diggs' appointment as Chairman by House Speaker Carl Albert.

8/72 -
10/72
Consultant to McGovern/Shriver Campaign
Establishing representative membership on the Issue Task Forces of the national campaign staff; coordinating Education Task Force; Marian Wright Edelman, Chairwoman.

7/72 and
Runoff
9/72
Assistant to the Campaign Director for the Successful Mayoral Campaign of
Hon. A.J. Cooper, Prichard, Alabama
Coordinating volunteers; establishing telephone bank, day care center, and car pool operations for voter registration and election.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

Resume - Joan Talbert Thornell                                               Page Two.

1/72 -
10/72           Staff Director
The National Black Political Convention, Inc.
Administrative follow-up to the Gary Convention; publi-
cation of "The National Black Political Agenda"

2/72 -
4/72            Fellow, The Joint Center for Political Studies, serving as
Staff Coordinator, Platform Committee of The National
Black Political Convention, Gary, Indiana. Platform
Commitee Chairman, Hon. Walter E. Fauntroy (Del, D.C.)

9/71 -
1/72            Staff Director
Hon. D'Army Bailey and Hon. Ira Simmons
City Council, Berkeley California
Coordinating staff of researchers and clerical workers;
supervision of three staff members and fifty volunteers.

1/71 -
6/71            Director, District Office of
Hon. Willie L. Brown, Jr.
State Assemblyman and Chairman, Ways and Means Committee
San Francisco, California
Liaison with Sacremento office; administration of district
office with four employees and over 100 volunteers.

3/70 -
12/70           Consultant, Self-employed. New York City
Speech writing, editing and research; program planning,
development and evaluation.
Manager for Cecil P. Taylor, pianist and composer.

1/69 -
3/70            New York Urban Coalition
2. Special Assistant to the Executive Vice President for
Education and Manpower, Lincoln 0. Lynch
Staff supervision (8 employees), research, speech
writing and publication design
1. Assistant to the Executive Director, Coalition JOBS,
William Kaufmann. Conference coordination and
staff supervision (52 employees).

1/68 -
11/68           Volunteer Community Work
New Haven, Connecticut
Chairman, Black Women of Greater New Haven
Board of Directors, Black Coalition of New Haven
Executive Committee, Board of Directors, Community Housing,
Inc., non-profit housing development corporation
Board of Directors, Yale Upward Bound
Board of Directors, Perspectives -- program for high
school students

4/67 -
12/67           Director, Harvard-Yale-Columbia Intensive Summer Studies
Program; New Haven, Connecticut
Program purpose: to recruit, select, train and place students
from predominantly Black southern colleges in the graduate
programs of the three cooperating universities and other
graduate schools. Staff of four; faculty of fifty; 150
students.

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 24


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

Resume - Joan Talbert Thornell                                  Page Three

10/65 -
1/67          The White House, Washington, D. C.
2. Executive Assistant to the Chairman
The National Advisory Commission on Selective Service
Hon. Burke Marshall, Chairman
Liaison with commission members; arrangements for
all commission meetings; coordination of publication
of commission report.
1. White House Conference "To Fulfill These Rights"
Special Assistant to the Director/Senior Staff Associate
Planning and implementation of the civil rights
conference; assisting in the drafting and editing
of the final report.

4/65 -
10/65         Personal Secretary to the Director
Peace Corps and Office of Economic Opportunity
Hon. R. Sargent Shriver, Jr.

1/65 -
4/65          Administrative Assistant to the Inspector General/OEO
William F. Haddad, Associate Director/Inspector General

11/63 -
1/65          Maternity Leave

9/62 -
11/63         Administrative Assistant to the Associate Director for Planning
Evaluation and Research, Peace Corps. William F. Haddad

4/62 -
9/62          Dance Therapist, St. Elizabeths Hospital
Conducting dance therapy sessions with schizophrenic
patients; participating in diagnostic and treatment-
planning staff meetings.

7/61 -
4/62          Selection Officer
Peace Corps
Member of initial group which set standards for selection
of Peace Corps Volunteers.

6/60 -
6/61          Assistant to the Casting Director
David Merrick Productions
New York City
Arranging audition schedules; replacement casting for
children's roles in *Gypsy, Take Me Along, and Carnival*;
production assistant for *Becket, A Taste of Honey* and
*Do Re Mi*. Reviewing off-Broadway plays for audition
candidates; manuscript review of new novels and new
plays for the largest Broadway production office.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

REFERENCES

M. Carl Holman
President
The National Urban Coalition
1201 Connecticut Avenue, N. W.
Suite 400
Washington, D. C.
331-2447

Hon. Charles C. Diggs, Jr.
Chairman
Committee on the District of Columbia
House of Representatives
2208 Rayburn House Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20515
225-2261

Hon. Richard G. Hatcher
Mayor
City Hall
401 Broadway
Gary, Indiana
219/944-6700

Hon. A. J. Cooper
Mayor
City Hall
Prichard, Alabama

Hon. Lisle C. Carter
Chancellor
Atlanta University Center
594 University Place, N. W.
Atlanta, Georgia 30314
414/522-8980

Edward C. Sylvester, Jr.
Staff Director
Committee on the District of Columbia
House of Representatives
1310 Longworth House Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20515
225-4457

Kingman Brewster, Jr.
President
Yale University
New Haven, Connecticut
203/787-3131

Burke Marshall
Assistant Dean
Yale University Law School
New Haven, Connecticut
203/787-3131

Walter N. Rothschild, Jr.
Chairman
The National Urban Coalition
521 Fifth Avenue
Suite 3701
New York, New York 10017
212/862-2928

R. Sargent Shriver, Jr., Esq.
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shirver
& Kampleman
Suite 1000
Watergate 600 Building
600 New Hampshire Ave., N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20037
965-9400

Roger Wilkins
Editorial Board
The New York Times
229 West 43rd Street
New York, New York
212/556-1234


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# RECOMMENDED By CongresswoMAN Boggs
JOAN TALBERT THORNELL Research

122 Sixth Street, S. E.
Washington, D. C. 20003
543 - 7785

lettersont
10/7

## EDUCATION & TRAINING

Valedictory, 1956, Dunbar High School; Washington, D.C.
A.B., Psychology, 1960, George Washington University; Washington, D.C.
Professional Training in Dance Therapy, 1958-61, St. Elizabeths Hospital

## PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE (Chronological)

6/76 -
8/76 Editorial and Research Consultant to the Joint Committee on
Arrangements for Commemoration of the Bicentennial for
its dual project (publication and exhibit for U.S.
Capitol), "Black Americans in Congress, 1870-1976"

9/75 -
6/76 Fundraising Consultant for The Black Student Fund -- a
scholarship and service organization to increase black
enrollment in independent schools in the Washington
metropolitan area.

10/75 -
2/76 Planning Consultant to the National Council of Organizations
for Children and Youth for their first national conference

4/73 -
2/75 Assistant to the President for Special Projects
The National Urban Coalition
M. Carl Holman, President
Planning national and local conferences and meetings,
awards events and other special projects; designing
public relations strategy; liaison with the Chairman,
Walter N. Rothschild, Jr.

11/72 -
2/73 Consultant, Office of Congressman Charles C. Diggs, Jr.
Researching formation of new House Committee on the
District of Columbia; arranging ceremony to cite
Congressman Diggs' appointment as Chairman by House
Speaker Carl Albert.

8/72 -
10/72 Consultant to McGovern/Shriver Campaign
Establishing representative membership on the Issue
Task Forces of the national campaign staff; coordinating
Education Task Force; Marian Wright Edelman, Chairwoman.

7/72 and
Runoff
9/72 Assistant to the Campaign Director for the
Successful Mayoral Campaign of
Hon. A.J. Cooper, Prichard, Alabama
Coordinating volunteers; establishing telephone bank,
day care center, and car pool operations for voter
registration and election.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

Resume - Joan Talbert Thornell                                          Page Two.

4/72 -
10/72                      Staff Director
The National Black Political Convention, Inc.
Administrative follow-up to the Gary Convention; publication of "The National Black Political Agenda"

2/72 -
4/72                      Fellow, The Joint Center for Political Studies, serving as
Staff Coordinator, Platform Committee of The National
Black Political Convention, Gary, Indiana. Platform
Commitee Chairman, Hon. Walter E. Fauntroy (Del, D.C.)

9/71 -
1/72                      Staff Director
Hon. D'Army Bailey and Hon. Ira Simmons
City Council, Berkeley California
Coordinating staff of researchers and clerical workers;
supervision of three staff members and fifty volunteers.

1/71 -
6/71                      Director, District Office of
Hon. Willie L. Brown, Jr.
State Assemblyman and Chairman, Ways and Means Committee
San Francisco, California
Liaison with Sacremento office; administration of district
office with four employees and over 100 volunteers.

3/70 -
12/70                     Consultant, Self-employed. New York City
Speech writing, editing and research; program planning,
development and evaluation.
Manager for Cecil P. Taylor, pianist and composer.

1/69 -
3/70                     New York Urban Coalition
2.    Special Assistant to the Executive Vice President for
Education and Manpower, Lincoln O. Lynch
Staff supervision (8 employees), research, speech
writing and publication design
1.    Assistant to the Executive Director, Coalition JOBS,
      William Kaufmann. Conference coordination and
      staff supervision (52 employees).

1/68 -
11/68                     Volunteer Community Work
New Haven, Connecticut
Chairman, Black Women of Greater New Haven
Board of Directors, Black Coalition of New Haven
Executive Committee, Board of Directors, Community Housing
Inc., non-profit housing development corporation
Board of Directors, Yale Upward Bound
Board of Directors, Perspectives -- program for high
school students

4/67 -
12/67                     Director, Harvard-Yale-Columbia Intensive Summer Studies
Program; New Haven, Connecticut
Program purpose: to recruit, select, train and place students
from predominantly Black southern colleges in the graduate
programs of the three cooperating universities and other
graduate schools. Staff of four; faculty of fifty; 150
students.

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 28


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

Resumé - Joan Talbert Thornell                                                Page Three

10/65 - The White House, Washington, D. C.
1/67        2. Executive Assistant to the Chairman
The National Advisory Commission on Selective Service
Hon. Burke Marshall, Chairman
Liaison with commission members; arrangements for
all commission meetings; coordination of publication
of commission report.

            1. White House Conference "To Fulfill These Rights"
            Special Assistant to the Director/Senior Staff Associate
            Planning and implementation of the civil rights
            conference; assisting in the drafting and editing
            of the final report.

4/65 -    Personal Secretary to the Director
10/65       Peace Corps and Office of Economic Opportunity
Hon. R. Sargent Shriver, Jr.

1/65 -   Administrative Assistant to the Inspector General/OEO
4/65       William F. Haddad, Associate Director/Inspector General

11/63 -   Maternity Leave
1/65

9/62 -    Administrative Assistant to the Associate Director for Plannin
11/63      Evaluation and Research, Peace Corps. William F. Haddad

4/62 -    Dance Therapist, St. Elizabeths Hospital
9/62       Conducting dance therapy sessions with schizophrenic
patients; participating in diagnostic and treatment-
planning staff meetings.

7/61 -
4/62       Selection Officer
Peace Corps
Member of initial group which set standards for selection
of Peace Corps Volunteers.

6/60 -    Assistant to the Casting Director
6/61       David Merrick Productions
New York City
Arranging audition schedules; replacement casting for
children's roles in Gypsy, Take Me Along, and Carnival;
production assistant for Becket, A Taste of Honey and
Do Re Mi. Reviewing off-Broadway plays for audition
candidates; manuscript review of new novels and new
plays for the largest Broadway production office.

NW 88326
DocId:32244106 Page 29


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# REFERENCES

M. Carl Holman
President
The National Urban Coalition
1201 Connecticut Avenue, N. W.
Suite 400
Washington, D. C.
331-2447

Hon. Charles C. Diggs, Jr.
Chairman
Committee on the District of Columbia
House of Representatives
2208 Rayburn House Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20515
225-2261

Hon. Richard G. Hatcher
Mayor
City Hall
401 Broadway
Gary, Indiana
219/944-6700

Hon. A. J. Cooper
Mayor
City Hall
Prichard, Alabama

Hon. Lisle C. Carter
Chancellor
Atlanta University Center
594 University Place, N. W.
Atlanta, Georgia 30314
414/522-8980

Edward C. Sylvester, Jr.
Staff Director
Committee on the District of Columbia
House of Representatives
1310 Longworth House Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20515
225-4457

Kingman Brewster, Jr.
President
Yale University
New Haven, Connecticut
203/787-3131

Burke Marshall
Assistant Dean
Yale University Law School
New Haven, Connecticut
203/787-3131

Walter N. Rothschild, Jr.
Chairman
The National Urban Coalition
521 Fifth Avenue
Suite 3701
New York, New York 10017
212/862-2928

R. Sargent Shriver, Jr., Esq.
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shirver
& Kampleman
Suite 1000
Watergate 600 Building
600 New Hampshire Ave., N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20037
965-9400

Roger Wilkins
Editorial Board
The New York Times
229 West 43rd Street
New York, New York
212/556-1234


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

JOAN TALBERT THORNELL

122 Sixth Street, S. E.
Washington, D. C. 20003
543 - 7785

EDUCATION & TRAINING

Valedictory, 1956, Dunbar High School; Washington, D.C.
A.B., Psychology, 1960, George Washington University; Washington, D.C.
Professional Training in Dance Therapy, 1958-61, St. Elizabeths Hospital

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE (Chronological)

6/76 - 8/76 Editorial and Research Consultant to the Joint Committee on Arrangements for Commemoration of the Bicentennial for its dual project (publication and exhibit for U.S. Capitol), "Black Americans in Congress, 1870-1976"

9/75 - 6/76 Fundraising Consultant for The Black Student Fund -- a scholarship and service organization to increase black enrollment in independent schools in the Washington metropolitan area.

10/75 - 2/76 Planning Consultant to the National Council of Organizations for Children and Youth for their first national conference

4/73 - 2/75 Assistant to the President for Special Projects
The National Urban Coalition
M. Carl Holman, President
Planning national and local conferences and meetings, awards events and other special projects; designing public relations strategy; liaison with the Chairman, Walter N. Rothschild, Jr.

11/72 - 2/73 Consultant, Office of Congressman Charles C. Diggs, Jr. Researching formation of new House Committee on the District of Columbia; arranging ceremony to cite Congressman Diggs' appointment as Chairman by House Speaker Carl Albert.

8/72 - 10/72 Consultant to McGovern/Shriver Campaign
Establishing representative membership on the Issue Task Forces of the national campaign staff; coordinating Education Task Force; Marian Wright Edelman, Chairwoman.

7/72 and Runoff 9/72 Assistant to the Campaign Director for the Successful Mayoral Campaign of Hon. A.J. Cooper, Prichard, Alabama
Coordinating volunteers; establishing telephone bank, day care center, and car pool operations for voter registration and election.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

Resume - Joan Talbert Thornell                                            Page Two.

1/72 -
10/72          Staff Director
The National Black Political Convention, Inc.
Administrative follow-up to the Gary Convention; publi-
cation of "The National Black Political Agenda"

2/72 -
4/72          Fellow, The Joint Center for Political Studies, serving as
Staff Coordinator, Platform Committee of The National
Black Political Convention, Gary, Indiana. Platform
Commitee Chairman, Hon. Walter E. Fauntroy (Del, D.C.)

9/71 -
1/72          Staff Director
Hon. D'Army Bailey and Hon. Ira Simmons
City Council, Berkeley California
Coordinating staff of researchers and clerical workers;
supervision of three staff members and fifty volunteers.

1/71 -
6/71          Director, District Office of
Hon. Willie L. Brown, Jr.
State Assemblyman and Chairman, Ways and Means Committee
San Francisco, California
Liaison with Sacremento office; administration of district
office with four employees and over 100 volunteers.

3/70 -
12/70          Consultant, Self-employed. New York City
Speech writing, editing and research; program planning,
development and evaluation.
Manager for Cecil P. Taylor, pianist and composer.

1/69 -
3/70          New York Urban Coalition

2.    Special Assistant to the Executive Vice President for
      Education and Manpower, Lincoln 0. Lynch
      Staff supervision (8 employees), research, speech
      writing and publication design

1.    Assistant to the Executive Director, Coalition JOBS,
      William Kaufmann. Conference coordination and
      staff supervision (52 employees).

1/68 -
11/68          Volunteer Community Work
New Haven, Connecticut
Chairman, Black Women of Greater New Haven
Board of Directors, Black Coalition of New Haven
Executive Committee, Board of Directors, Community Housing,
Inc., non-profit housing development corporation
Board of Directors, Yale Upward Bound
Board of Directors, Perspectives program for high
school students

4/67 -
12/67          Director, Harvard-Yale-Columbia Intensive Summer Studies
Program; New Haven, Connecticut
Program purpose: to recruit, select, train and place students
from predominantly Black southern colleges in the graduate
programs of the three cooperating universities and other
graduate schools. Staff of four; faculty of fifty; 150
students.

NW 88326
Docld:32244106 Page 32


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

Resume - Joan Talbert Thornell                                                  Page Three

10/65 -  The White House, Washington, D. C.
1/67        2. Executive Assistant to the Chairman
The National Advisory Commission on Selective Service
Hon. Burke Marshall, Chairman
Liaison with commission members; arrangements for
all commission meetings; coordination of publication
of commission report.
1. White House Conference "To Fulfill These Rights"
Special Assistant to the Director/Senior Staff Associate
Planning and implementation of the civil rights
conference; assisting in the drafting and editing
of the final report.

4/65 -   Personal Secretary to the Director
10/65      Peace Corps and Office of Economic Opportunity
Hon. R. Sargent Shriver, Jr.

1/65 -   Administrative Assistant to the Inspector General/OEO
4/65       William F. Haddad, Associate Director/Inspector General

11/63 -  Maternity Leave
1/65

9/62 -   Administrative Assistant to the Associate Director for Planning
11/63      Evaluation and Research, Peace Corps.   William F. Haddad

4/62 -   Dance Therapist, St. Elizabeths Hospital
9/62       Conducting dance therapy sessions with schizophrenic
patients; participating in diagnostic and treatment-
planning staff meetings.

7/61 -   Selection Officer
4/62       Peace Corps
Member of initial group which set standards for selection
of Peace Corps Volunteers.

6/60 -   Assistant to the Casting Director
6/61       David Merrick Productions
New York City
Arranging audition schedules; replacement casting for
children's roles in *Gypsy*, *Take Me Along*, and *Carnival*;
production assistant for *Becket*, *A Taste of Honey* and
*Do Re Mi*. Reviewing off-Broadway plays for audition
candidates; manuscript review of new novels and new
plays for the largest Broadway production office.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# REFERENCES

M. Carl Holman
President
The National Urban Coalition
1201 Connecticut Avenue, N. W.
Suite 400
Washington, D. C.
331-2447

Hon. Charles C. Diggs, Jr.
Chairman
Committee on the District of Columbia
House of Representatives
2208 Rayburn House Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20515
225-2261

Hon. Richard G. Hatcher
Mayor
City Hall
401 Broadway
Gary, Indiana
219/944-6700

Hon. A. J. Cooper
Mayor
City Hall
Prichard, Alabama

Hon. Lisle C. Carter
Chancellor
Atlanta University Center
594 University Place, N. W.
Atlanta, Georgia 30314
414/522-8980

Edward C. Sylvester, Jr.
Staff Director
Committee on the District of Columbia
House of Representatives
1310 Longworth House Office Building
Washington, D. C. 20515
225-4457

Kingman Brewster, Jr.
President
Yale University
New Haven, Connecticut
203/787-3131

Burke Marshall
Assistant Dean
Yale University Law School
New Haven, Connecticut
203/787-3131

Walter N. Rothschild, Jr.
Chairman
The National Urban Coalition
521 Fifth Avenue
Suite 3701
New York, New York 10017
212/862-2928

R. Sargent Shriver, Jr., Esq.
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shirver
& Kampleman
Suite 1000
Watergate 600 Building
600 New Hampshire Ave., N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20037
965-9400

Roger Wilkins
Editorial Board
The New York Times
229 West 43rd Street
New York, New York
212/556-1234


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)