2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

8/17/76
[AMERICAN EMBASSY/PARIS] Box 28 Folder 13 #3

1973 RETIRED

NOV 63 SAT IN PARIS

NO GOT COVER

GOV OPS

SEPT. 62 ARRIVED

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.

DEFENSE DOER AS BRANCH 6 CHIEF

TWO YRS IN SEC 6

SEPT 1960 ASSIGNED

PARIS

NOT INFREQ CONTACT

EV 2½ wks

MADE ON OUTSIDE BY TELE TO OFF COVER PERSON W/

NEVER WRITTEN COMM

SEL 6
SUPPORT
OP RES OF SR DIV
REPOSING INFO IN SUPPORT OF SR DIV - CLASSICAL ESPIONAGE W/ USSR

PENETRATION OF PURPS OF ESPIONAGE

CARTO

DEMOG

SOCIOLOGISTS

SU, POL INFO PERSONS

IT WAS IN DOWN PHASE AT THE TIME

20-25 WHEN HE CAME IN

[JAPAN]

FEB 1955 - JUNE 1960

CHIEF OF SOU BASE OF N. ASIA COMMAND


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ATTACHED TO FAR EASTERN COM OF ARMED FORCES
ONE OF FOUR BASES: THEY WERE TARGETS
SOU BALO BUT NOT AGAINST JAPAN
SOU, JAPAN, KOREA, RIINA

9 OR 10 IN SOU BASE
ASSIGNED AS HEAD IN 1955

TIPES OF OPS FROM SOU BASE
ESPIONAGE
LOU OPS - PSYCHO WARFARE, RAD O TRANS-
MISSION TO INTERNAL SOU AUDIENCE

ESP - SOU NAVAL & INDUSTRIAL TARGETS IIV.
SOV PORTES USING MAINLY JAPANESE OPERATIVES

EXTREMEL LIM WORK WI MILITARY
WOULD BRIEF MILITARY
THED TO WORK W/ CLANDESTINE UNITS OF
ARMY. NAVY HAD NOVE
вит преч HAD WW DEGRGE OF PROFESSIONA

USM
MILITARY SAID WAS RUNNING OPS BUT IT WAS
NEVER CONFIRMED
MILITARY INTELL PERSO
CAPT PEREZ OSI
JONN & SCAULTY ARMY HEAD

OP. SUPP. WAG PROVIDED BY NAVY
I.E. CQUER FOR PERSONS CONTACTING SOVIETS

CANNOT RECALL SPECIFIC INFO ABOUT MILI. USING
AM. MILITARY
EXCEPT ROMERS OF TRAFFICKING
THE IND. INTELL AGENCIES WOULD HAVE HANDLED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

3

NO CONCRETE INFO OF ANY CONTACT CAME TO HIGH ATTENTION W/ SOUS

SUPERIORS CHIEF OF N. ASIA COMM: 1955: RETIRED VICE ADM. O.

THEN HARRY LITTLE 1957

HIS COMMUNICATIONS WERE GENERALLY BACK TO HQ

N. ASIA COMM AT TIME WAS TIED UP W/ KOREA + JAPAN

DOES NOT KNOW WHO HAD OVERSIGHT FOR U-2

WAS WELL COMPARTMENTED

NEVER LEARNED

ASSUMED IT WAS PARAMILITARY

N. ASIA BASE RAN NO PARAMILITARY OPS.

MOST SMALLER STATIONS DID NOT

DOESN'T RECALL DISCUSSING USING ANY DEFECTORS TO 1ST CHIEF DIR
THOUGHT KGB WOULD SUSPECT NUM FROM BEGINNING

I KNOW A LOT ABOUT KGB

FROM DISPLACEMENT OF CITI

ANY ESP INTEREST WAS MUCH MORE SHORT RANGE AS TO PRECLUDE PROGRAM

NOT IN ANY WAY OF DOING THINGS

LESSENING OF TENSIONS DID ALLOW SOME SHALLOW PENE: SHORT TERM TOURISTS, FOREIG

BUT NO DIRECT & OBVIOUS EFFECT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

435-173-A

DOES REMEMBER MEN0

DUE OF HIS CONTACTS
LAMPRELL = HOY RBT. SINCLAIR D. OF CANCER FEW
`YR. AGO; WAS SR. OFF IN SOU. OFF OF PARIS STATION (#2 MAN)`

WALTER HALTIGAN =
JAMES FLINT WAS HIS NORMAL CONTACT

DOESN'T KNOW WHY TIME DELAY
ASSUMES HALTIGAN WASIN'T AVAILABLE

(RECALLS)
WROTE MEMO SPONTANEOUSLY BECAUSE OF NEWS CAST
WHEN HE HEARD INFO ABOUT MINSK, [MARRYING]
[FOR EIGNER,] REMEMBERED STATE DEPT. INFO

REDWOOD: CLAND OPS/CHIEF OF SR WAS RESPONSIBLE
AS OPPOSED TO REDCAP: TARGETS AGAINST SOUS OUT OF USSR.

[CI WAS STAFF REVIEW, BUT SUPPOSEDLY NO COMMAND
VOICE; BUT THEY DID HAVE THEIR OWN
CLOSELY HELD OPS]

THEY GAVE OP APPROVAL FOR EVERY OPERATION

POSSIBLE OR PROBABLE THAT THEY FIU OPS IN
HIS GEO. TARGET

RESEARCH WAS AN OP FUNCTION OF THE 6 BRANCH
CANNOT REMEMBER RESEARCH'S EXACT MANDATE

BRANCH

1 SCANDINAVIA 5 FAR EAST
2  INTER BRANCH
3 MIDD + LATIN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

5

RESEARCH WOULD GET INFO FROM DEFECTORS ABOUT
REALITIES
SOV. DEFECTORS, GETTING DETAILS ABOUT SOVIET
LIFE

WOULD “NORMALLY” PUMP PERSON LIKE O. ABOUT
LIFE IN USSR

DOESN'T PERSONALLY KNOW OF DEFECTOR BEING
USED AS SOURCE IN HIS BRIEF TIME IN
SOV. UNION

AGENCY BENEFITED FROM FBI DEBRIEFINGS
caras
DIV/00 HAD MANDATE IN US

BELIEVES [FIELDS FROM CZECNOS] WAS DEBRIEFED

BELIEVES HE GOT INFO ON AMER IN SOV UNION.
FROM STATE DEPT VISAS OR FROM PRESS

[
6 RESEARCH SEC
CHIEF: CANNOT REMEM

DEP.CHIEF: OLDER WOMAN AT ACT OF RETIREMENT

RODOLF
BALABAN (UKR-AMER.) CAN REMEMBER NAMES
]

[
DATE OF DISCU:
LAST DAYS OF WORK: 300 OR 4TH WK OF JULY 1962
SO DISCUSSION TOOK PLACE I
]

ASSUMED HE HAD BEEN SENT OUT BY KGB SO DID
NOT DEBRIEF

SUMMER 1960 - 6/25 LEFT JAPAN, TRAVELLED
THRU EUROPE ON LEAVE W/ FAMILY UNTIL SEPT.
COULD NOT HAVE BEEN 1960.
USED WRONG YR IN THE MEMU


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

6

KUJUMP: PS DIV; NAD CONTACTS DIV FOR DE-
BRIEFING

[ SUIT CHANNGOS: INS, FBI ]

HAD RECD ONE STATE DEPT DISPATCH ON RETURNING AM

IF HE GAVE UP PASSPORT HAD TO APPLY IN. SAME WAY TO RETURN

BELIEVES AM HAD CONTACTS INITIATED BY HIM

KNEW WHATEVER WAS IN STATE DEPT DISPATCH ABOUT HIM

O LOOKS ODD.

CIA'S OWN EVALUATION BECAUSE HE WAS ALLOWED TO LIVE IN + MARRY

CONTROLLED STATION COULD TALK & CONTACT IN PERFUNCTORY MANNER

1945-60

DOESN'T BELIEVE MORE THAN 10 CAME TO THEIR ATTENTION FROM STATE

MILI

REDSKIN = LEGAL TRAVELLERS PROGRAM. VERY LEGIT PRESENCE IN USSR

DEBRIEFING AGENCY WOULD WRITE INFO & PASS IT ON. HE BELIEVES HE WOULD HAVE KNOWN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

BELIEVES IT INCONCEIVABLE O WOULD HAVE BEEN
OPERATIVE
NO INFO

KGB OPERATIONS MADE IT CONC HE COULD HAVE
BEEN LAY LOW OPERATIVE

MINSK

HAD SOME SPECIAL DESIGN PLANTS OF INTEREST
AVIATION
NUCLEAR ENERGY
BACTERIO. WARFARE

CAN'T REMEM WHICH WERE IN MINSK
ANYONE NEAR THEM WAS OF INTEREST

CONFIDENT O WAS NOT WORKING IN SUCH.
A SECURITY
WAS NOT CLEARLY MILI OR SECURITY AREA

BELIEVES THEY HAD ENGIC INFO ON *THE* RADIO FACTORY
IN OFF. OF RESEARCH & REPORTING

WASN'T AWARE OF KGB FAR IN MINSK

LEGAL TRAV PROG
HEADED BY ALEXANDER SOKALOFF SR DIV
BEGAN PRE 1960 AS LESSENING OF TENSIONS
BEGAN
SOK CAME OUT AS CHILD W/ RUSSIAN PARENTS

DEFS WERE KEPT AT ARMS LENGTH

MEANT HAD RELA WELL BEFORE HIS TRIP


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

8

KNEW WHAT NEED BE DOING, COULD GIVE
RED'TS

C. WAS NOT INVOLVED IN IT
C WAS OPPOSED BECAUSE IT WAS TOO SHORT TERM
IN TIME OF RESOURCES, RISK

COVER MAY HAVE BEEN USED BY AGENCY, BUT
DOESN'T KNOW, SAID NO BOUNCES TO GET'D
BE TOLD

HARVEY STORY
MUST HAVE
MORE CONNEC CRYPTONIM HE WAS USING AT STORY
[PONDERS ?]
WOULD HAVE TO HAVE PROMPTING OF MEMORY
DOUBTS IT WOULD BE SOMEBODY'S TRUE NAME.

NEVER CONTACTED BY ANYBODY ABOUT O OR
MEMO

O. INTEREST WAS JUST A LEAD - NO FOLLOW UP
NOT UNUSUAL

O'S GOING TO USSR WAS UNUSUAL LEFT HIM
OPEN TO CONTACT BY KGB
- BUT HE WAS THEREFORE OF MARGINAL IN-TEREST

NORMAL TO NOT MAKE CHECK FOR 201
ONCE THEY DECIDED NOT TO USE HIM
IT'S POSS A[ COLLEAGUE ]COULD HAVE
CHECKED, BUT DOESN'T RECALL ANY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SUBORDINATES
BALABAN

RICHARD [WINK]?
CHARLES COX LIAISON W/ TECH SUPPORTS DIU
(I.e. CONISALMENT DEVICEL)
DEPUTIES: CHACIKA VADZE, DAVID IN 1960 FOR 3-4 MOS.
AVERILL
A.T. STEWART, STAYED ON - COULD
REMEMBER MORE DETAILS
BECKY BALABAN

201: INDICATION THAT RED FIKO BEEN MADE
FOR PROV. OP. APPPDUAL: WOULD INDICATE
OP. USET INTEREST; WOULD REFER

DOESN'T KNOW CRITERIA FOR OPENING 201'S
MANY #'S ROMAINED OPON W/O BEING ASSETS

AGENT PROPS WERE ASSIGNED [TO ATSUGI]

OSWALD

WHATEVER I MEANT BY HARVEY HAD NOTHING
TO DO WY HIM

CI = COUNTER-INT
SIG: SIGNAL INTELL, BUT NOT SURE
NSA OR MILL MIGHT HAVE PICKED NAME
UP IN TRANSMISSION IF HE HAD
ACCESS TO SUCH.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

201 SEU OF
REGISTRY COULD ANSWER QUES OF ENTRIES

AG: DOESN'T KNOW

[ CROSSES & ENTRIES:] DOESN'T KNOW
BELIEVES PERUNA CARGO MEANS STAY IN REGISTRY w/ NO OP SIGNIFICANCE

WOULD BE ROUTINE IF SIMILARLY OPENED ON OTHER DEFECTORS

[ BRANCH 6 ] DIDN'T HAVE INTERES

STATE DIST WOULD HAVE BEEN PASSED ON FOR INFO & BACK TO REGISTRY UND KEPT IN DOCS

BELIEVES FROM MEMO HE SAW SEVERAL DISP WOULD BE NORMAL TO SEE CONSECU SERIES

```

```

    DDO
/ |  \
FOREIGN CI PSYCH POL. PARAMILITARY
|
LINE DIVISIONS

```

BELIEVES DOC IS PASSIVE & NOT OPERATIONAL

THEY GOT VISAS TOO EASILY

"UNUSUAL BEHAVIOR":
DEFECTION; REASONS UNKNOWN, DISORIENTED (DOESN'T THINK HE WAS SENT BACK ON MISSION, BUT DOESN'T EXCLUDE POSS.).
MARRIED RUSSIAN
```


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

DOESNIT BELIEVE WE WERE ABLE TO MONITOR NM IN SOV. U - HOULD HAVE BEEN TOO RISKY

HIS REVEALNO MILI SECRETS WOULD HAVE BEEN OF INTEREST


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

WOULD MEMO HAVE EXISTED ABOUT HIS INTEREST IN LHO

DOESN'T THINK YO NOR REMEEM DOING SO
NOT CUSTOMARY

WHAT WAS FIRST [UDACID] DISPATCH REC'D

NOTE: C'S MEMO OF 11/25/63 PRESUPPOSES A LOT OF EARLY INFO ON O'S ACTIVITIES IN MINSK.

12


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)