# Assassination Records Review Board
# Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10453
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10453

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PARYOLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 08/29/77
PAGES: 51

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
JOHNSON, LILLIAN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel

DATE: December 19, 1977

RE: Lillian Johnson

This memorandum is to inform you that Lillian Johnson is on administrative leave from December 9, 1977 until January 9, 1978. She should continue on the payroll for that period of time plus any additional vacation that she has not yet taken.

If you have any questions concerning this matter, please contact me.

![3 days annual leave handwriting]

![Terminate January 12. 1978 Howarth handwriting]

ICM:jl

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

![Date]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Lillian B. Johnson                | 8/29/77        |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action                                         |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| 577 56 7465                     | ☑ Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee   |                                                        |
| Assassinations                  | ☐ Salary Adjustment                                    |
|                                 | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Secretary      | $13,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff- ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number____________ If applicable, Level________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 31 1977

____________________________
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:__________________________________
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code____________
Monthly Annuity $__________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

![FO 8/31]

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

RESUME ROUTING FORM

Johnson Lillian

Secretarial

Received 8-10-77 Logged by nps $13,500

Congressional Referral

[X] Self

Other

Comments on Referral

Abstracted by nps Date 8-10-77

Acknowledged by Date

Staff Component Review by Date

Recommended Action:

File Interview Hold Refer

REQUEST FOR APPOINTMENT Interviewer Hutton/Matthews Suggested date

Klein Suggested time

Confirmed date Confirmed time by

REQUEST FOR REFERENCES Hold for Date Notified

INSTRUCTIONS Hired as of 8-29-77 JFK/ Task

FINAL INTERVIEW REQUEST By Suggested date

Suggested time

Confirmed date Confirmed time by

LETTER OF NOTIFICATION by Acceptance/Date of employment

Rejection

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# RESUME

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875
(301) 772-3341(H)
(202) 755-6808(0)

Position Desired - Administrative Assistant/Secretarial

Experience - District of Columbia

5/77 - Present Department of Housing and Urban Development
451 7th Street, S.W. Clerk-typist

12/76 - 2/77 1977 Presidential Inaugural Committee
2nd & "T" Streets, S.W.
Administrative Assistant/Site Coordinator

9/76 - 11/76 Congressional Budget Office
2nd & "D" Streets, S.W. Secretary

7/76 - 9/76 Stuart Temporaries, Inc.
1120 -19th Street, N.W. Secretary

8/74 - 9/75 Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
18th & "H" Streets, N.W. Legal Secretary

11/73 - 8/74 Temporaries, Inc., 1015 18th Street, N.W.
Secretary

5/13 - 6/14 Longworth House Office Building, N.J. & "C"
Streets, S.E. Secretary

1/73 - 8/73 Model Inner Cities Community Organization
9th & "U" Streets, N.W. Executive Secretary

3/70 - 3/71 American Association of Junior Colleges
One Dupont Circle, N.W. Secretary

2/68 - 1/70 Harbridge House, Inc.
2100 "M" Street, N.W. Support Secretary

5/67 - 1/68 Tabulating Research & Development Agency
14th & "K" Streets, N.W. Secretary

5/66 - 5/67 Georgetown University, 37th & "0" Streets, N.W.
Clerk-typist


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

-2- Resume - Lillian B. Johnson Cont'd

## Education:

1/72 - 7/47 Strayer College, 13th & "G" Streets, N.W.
Studied Court & Conference Reporting, Stenotype,
Legal reporting and advanced vocabulary

9/63 - 6/64 Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y. Avenue,
N.W. Secretarial Course

9/59 - 6/62 Graduate of Dunbar High School, 1st & "N"
Streets, N.W. Commercial Courses

## Skills:

Stenotypist 100 - 140 wpm. Typist 75 - 80

## Personal:

Seeking opportunity for career professional position
willing to start as trainee, willing to travel occasionall

Divorced

One daughter age 8 years.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# 1977 Inaugural Committu

![Seal of the Inauguration of the President and Vice President]

February 7, 1977

Dear Ms. Johnson:

President Carter and Vice President Mondale have asked us to express their sincere appreciation to you for your most commendable efforts in support of the 1977 Inauguration.

The Inauguration of the President of the United States is a moment in history that serves as a vehicle to communicate to the world the commitment and spirit of the New Administration.

It is with this in mind that I forward this letter to you as a member of the Inaugural Security and Credential Committee. You displayed the highest degree of professionalism and dedication in many important tasks.

You were always willing and ready to work long hours, above and beyond the normal work day. You volunteered your services for almost anything asked of you.

Throughout the planning and implementation period, you were faced with an everchanging list of requirements. Your dedication to duty, understanding of the difficulties faced by the Inaugural Committee, and cooperative attitude are indicative of a true professional. Your overall manner of performance was truly outstanding.

If we had the power today, each of you would receive a tangible medal of citation for the highest award of Volunteer Action. Possessing only words, we say again, thank you for all the service given so unselfishly.

Sincerely,

![Signature of Frank Vison]
Frank Vison, Director
Security & Credentials Committee

![Signature of Donald Brock]
Donald Brock, Deputy Chief
In Charge of Internal Security

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

![Seal with text INAUGURATION OF PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT]

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON

served with distinction on behalf of the
Armed Forces of the United States
at the Inauguration of

Jimmy Carter

on the twentieth day of January,
one thousand, nine-hundred seventy-seven
in Washington, District of Columbia

Bardy P.W. Tivari Viki Roger

Bardyl R. Tirana Vicki Rogers

Co-Chairpersons

Robert G. Verks
Major General USA

1977 Inaugural Committee

Chairman

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON

February 3, 1977

To Lillian Johnson

I deeply appreciate your dedicated and untiring work on the 1977 inauguration. The inaugural program was a great success, open to all of our citizens. This would not have been possible without the unselfish help, cheerful spirit and long hours freely given by volunteers such as you.

You have helped to set an example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing our talents and energies with each other. Many thanks.

Sincerely,

![Signature of Jimmy Carter]

Miss Lillian Johnson
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Your assistance with the 1977 Inauguration meant a great deal to me personally. More importantly, it was a great example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing our talents and energies with each other.

![Signature of Jimmy Carter]

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# Life Experience: Inauguration of President and Vice President
of the United States, 1977 Presidential
Inaugural Committee, Washington, D.C.

## Position Descriptors

## Competency Statement

As Site Coordinator &
Administrative Assistant
of the Inaugural Committee's
Security & Credential division,
I have:

A. Acquired knowledge as to how
legislative priorities are set

B. Held high level administrative
responsibility in operating the
office

C. Supervised productivity, flow of
work and overall operations of
our office with top United States
Secret Service officials and
congressional members.

D. Through the concept of creative
office leadership I have assisted
in planning, organizing and con-
trolling the operations of presi-
dential security

E. Utilize techniques to help main-
tain good employee relations
through effective supervision,
delegation, evaluating, training,
and thorough communications with
USSS.

F. Arranged and made contacts with
top USSS agents, presidential
advance team, and congressional
members for indepth security
conferences.

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# AMENDMENT TO
PERSONAL QUALIFICATIONS STATEMENT

IMPORTANT: Read these instructions carefully before completing this form.

This form may be used to update your Personal Qualifications Statement provided you have had no more than three additional positions since the statement being updated was completed. Agencies are required to accept a previously completed Personal Qualifications Statement as current when this form is attached. Before completing this form, review carefully your answers to all items on the statement being updated. Use typewriter if available. Otherwise write or print legibly in dark ink.

1. NAME (Last) (First) (Middle) (Maiden, if any) ☐ MR. ☐ MISS ☐ MRS.
   AND ADDRESS (Number, Strat, City, State, and ZIP Code)

JOHNSON, Lillian Barbara Killens.

7516.Forest. Road

Hyattsville, Maryland 20875

4. KIND OF POSITION YOU ARE FILING FOR (Or title and number of announcement)

Security Assistant 15-21 (77)A

6. LOWEST PAY OR GRADE YOU WILL ACCEPT

PAY $

or

GRADE 7

2 DATE OF THIS STATEMENT 3. BIRTH DATE (month, day, year)

May 17, 1977 December 6, 1943

5. REASON FOR SUBMISSION (Check One)

☐ To update Personal Qualifications Statement in my Official Personal Folder

☐ To update Personal Qualifications Statement on file with you

☑ To update attached Personal Qualifications Statement

☐ As requested

7. EXPERIENCE (Start with your PRESENT position and work back. Account for periods of unemployment in separate blocks in order)
   May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? ☐ Yes ☐ No (A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities.)

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (Month, year)
FROM May 9, 1977 TO PRESENT TIME

EXACT TITLE OF POSITION
Clerk-typist

IF FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN OR
MILITARY GRADE 5

SALARY OR EARNINGS
STARTING $179. PER Week
FINAL $
PER

AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT
PER WEEK
CITY: Washington,
40
STATE: D.C.

NUMBER AND KIND OF EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED
0

KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
(manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
Housing & Urban Developm

NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR
Charles Field

NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)
Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD)
Washington, D.C. 20410

AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN

REASON FOR WANTING TO LEAVE Seeking position involving more responsibility and opportunity

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS Prepare in final form a variety of materials including correspondence, staff studies, technical papers, memoranda and issue papers which include the use of terminology that is highly specialized. Responsible for maintenance of subject matter files for the staff. (Even though this job description does not indicate), I have taken dictation and transcribed it for the Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Housing and Urban Development. Perform all secretarial duties.

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (Onth, year)
FROM
TO

EXACT TITLE OF POSITION

# FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN OR MILITARY GRADE

SALARY OR EARNINGS
STARTING $
PER
FINAL $
PER

AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT
PER WEEK
CITY:
STATE:

NUMBER AND KIND OF EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED

KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
(manufacturing, accounting,
insurance, etc.)

NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR

NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)

AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN

REASON FOR LEAVING

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS

THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT *(month, year)*

FROM TO

SALARY OR EARNINGS AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT EXACT TITLE OF POSITION NUMBER AND KIND OF IF FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN
PER WEEK EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED OR MILITARY GRADE

STARTING $ PER CITY: KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
*(manufacturing, accounting, insur-*
*auce, etc.)*

FINAL $ PER STATE:

NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER *(firm, organization, etc.)* AND ADDRESS *(including ZIP Code, if known)*

AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN

REASON FOR LEAVING

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS

FOR AGENCY USE *(skill codes, etc.)*

8. Space for explaining other changes or additions to the qualifications statement being updated. If any answer to an item on the qualifications statement being
   updated is incorrect or incomplete as of the date of this amendment, identify the item by number and explain. *(Check one)* ☐ Other changes or additions
   listed below☐ No other changes or additions.

ITEM If more space is required, use full sheets of paper approximately the same size as this page. Write on EACH sheet your name, position *(or title and number*
NO. of announcement) filing for, and date of the qualifications statement being updated. Attach all sheets to this form.

CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY that the statements made by me on this form update my Personal Qualifica SIGNATURE *(Sign in ink)*
tions Statement completed 5/17/77 *(month, year)* and are true, complete, and
correct to the best of my knowledge and belief, and are made in good faith.

FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM IS PUNISHABLE BY LAW

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 15
GPO : 1972 0-453-449


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# Administrative Asst.,

C. Options for which you wish to be considered (if listed in announcement)

## Legislative Aide

D. Primary place(s) you wish to be employed

Washington, D.C., Metropolitan area

2. Home phone (including Area Code) 3. Office phone (including Area Code)

772-3341 (301) 775-5860

4. Name (Last) (First) (Middle) (Maiden, if any) Mr. [X] Miss [] Ms.

and Address (Number, Street, City, State and ZIP Code)

JOHNSON, Lillian Barbara Killens
7516 Forest Road
Hyattsville, Maryland 20875

5. Legal or voting residence (State)

District of Columbia

6. Height without shoes 7. Weight

5 Feet 7 1/2 inches 135 lbs

8. Birthplace (City and State, or foreign country)

District of Columbia

9. Birth date (Month, day, year) 10. Social Security Account Number

12/6/43 577 56 7465

11. If you have ever been employed by the Federal Government as a civilian, give your
    last classification series, grade, and job title.

GS-318-5 Clerk-typist

Dates of service in that grade

From To

May 9, 1977 Present time

12. If you are currently on a list of eligibles for appointment to a Federal position, give
    the name of the announcement, the name of the office maintaining the list, the date
    on your notice of rating, and your rating.

Stenographer and Typist
United States Civil Service Commission
Federal Register
April 25, 1977 - Typist 4 - Steno 5

13. Lowest pay or grade you will accept 14. When will you be
    available?

PAY GRADE

$3 per YR. OR 5 notification

15. Will you accept temporary employment for: YES NO 16. Where will you accept a job? YES NO 17. Will you accept less than full

(Acceptance or refusal of [] 1 month or less? [X] Washington, D.C. [X] (Less than 40 hours per week) []
temporary employment will [] 1 to 4 months? [ ] Any place in the United States. [] 18. Are you willing to travel? (Check
not affect your candidalure [X] 4 to 12 months? [ ] Outside of the United States. [] NO SOM
for other appointments.) [ ] Only in (specify): metro area [X]

19. VETERAN PREFERENCE. Answer all parts. If a part does not apply to you, answer "No."

A. Have you ever served on active duty in the United States military service? (Exclude tours of active duty for training as a reservist or Guardsman.)

B. Have you ever been discharged from the armed services under other than honorable conditions? (You may omit any such discharge changed
to honorable by a Discharge Review Board or similar authority.)

If "Yes," give details in Item 37.

C. Do you claim 5-point preference based on active duty in the armed forces?

If "Yes," you will be required to furnish records to support your claim at the time you are appointed.

D. Do you claim 10-point preference?

If "Yes," check type of preference claimed and complete and attach Standard Form 13, "Claim for 10-point Veteran Preference," together with the proof
in that form

TYPE: [] Compensable disability [] Disability [] Wife [] Widow

E. List Dates, Branch, and Serial of Service Number of All Active Service (Enter "N/A" if not applicable)

From To Branch of Service Serial or Service Num

N/A

THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Page 1 Standard Form 171
May. 1975 U.S. Civil Service C
171-105

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 16


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? ¡A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

1
Dates of employment (month, year)
From 12/30/76 To PRESENT TIME
Salary or earnings
Starting $150.00 per wk
Present $ same per
Name of immediate supervisor
Frank Wilson, Director
Area Code and phone No. if known 202/472-4350
Exact title of position Security-Credls.
Site Coordinator/Secretary
Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
per week City: Washington supervised several-100(manufacturing, accounting, insurance,
50 State: D.C. volunteers 1977 Inaugural Comte
Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
1977 Inaugural Committee, 2nd & "D" Streets, S. Washington, D.C. 20024
Reason for wanting to leave Job is terminating on 1/31/77
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Instructing several sub-committees within the
Inaugural Committee on procedure and preparation of security clearance forms. Processing and preparing S.C. forms for security pick-up. Communication by phone on a very large scale with Secret Service, White House and many other agencies for Inauguration. Worked with the director preparing and designing security credentials. Sat-in on meetings Security & Press Personnel, took dictation and kept minutes. Operated the Command Post at Visitors Center. Typed letter, memorandums, etc., Presently working on After Action Report. Served as central point of information concerning activities of the office.

2
Dates of employment (month, year)
From 9/76 To 11/76
Salary or earnings
Starting $ 10,096. Per yr.
Final $ same per
Name of immediate supervisor
Carl McCarden/Alicia McPhee
Exact title of position
Secretary/Personnel Asst.
Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
per week City: Washington supervised none Federal
40 State: D.C.
Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Congressional Budget Office 2nd & "D" Streets, S.W.
Area Code and phone No. if known 202/225-6666
Reason for leaving Temporary position
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments - Secretary in Budget Analysis Division, Human Resource and Personnel Office. Worked with several Analyst. Typed up proposals, budget reports, general correspondence and telephone communications. Operated the Vydec Computer in all divisions.

3
Dates of employment (month, year)
From 7/76 To 9/76
Salary or earnings
Starting $ 4.75 per hr.
Final & same per
Name of immediate supervisor
Ms. Susan Heuser
Area Code and phone No. if known
Exact title of position
Secretary/Legal Asst.
Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
per week City: Washington supervised none secretarial agency
180. State: D.C.
Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Stuart Temporaries, Inc. 1120 -19th Street, N.W.
Reason for leaving Temporary placement agency.
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Worked on several legal assignments on short-term. Secretary to attorneys-Performed general secretarial duties, typing drafts, briefs, other correspondence, and telephone communication.

Page 2

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORM 171-A OR BLANK SHEETS SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 17


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

20. EXPERIENCE (Start with your PRESENT position and work back. Account for periods of unemployment in separate blocks in order.)

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment?
(A "No" will est ajat our camission for juntos apt for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

4
Dates of employment (month, year) 9/75
From 8/74 TO PRESENT TIME

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 10,500 per Yr.
Present $ same per

Exact title of position
Legal Secretary

Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
per week City: Washington supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
37-½ State: D.C. 0 Law Firm

Name of immediate supervisor
JoAnna McAtee

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
1815 "H" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Area Code and phone No. if known
Reason for wanting to leave laid off

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Legal Secretary to several attorneys in the firm, in areas of litigation, real estate, tax, labor, Federal Communications-took dictation, wrote letters of general correspondence, kept records, typed briefs, proposals, etc. Telephone communications with clients and other firms, etc.

For agency use (skill code, etc.) 1/72-6/74

(THE NEXT THREE JOBS LISTED BELOW WERE COURSE RELATED WHILE ATTENDING STRAYER COLLEGE)

5
Dates of employment (month, year)
From 11/73 To 8/74

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 4.50 per hr.
Final $
Name of immediate supervisor
Clara, Bob

Exact title of position
Secretary

Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
per week City: Washington supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
20 State: D.C. 0 Secretarial Service

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if know)
Temporaries, Inc., 1015 -18th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C.

Area Code and phone No. if known
Reason for leaving temporary job

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Gained experienced in working with many law firms in the area as Legal, Executive, Statistical and Technical Secretary on short-term assignments.

6
Dates of employment (month, year)
From 4/73 To 6/73

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 3.50 per hr.
Final $
Name of immediate supervisor
Doris Hoover

Exact title of position
Transcriber

For agency use (skill codes, etc.)

Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization
per week City: Washington supervised (manufacturing, accounting, insurance,
etc.)
20 State: D.C. 0 Reporting Agency

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if know)
Hoover Reporting Agency
3rd & Mass. Ave., N.E., Washington, D.C.

Area Code and phone No. if known
Reason for leaving Course related - for experience mostly.

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Transcriber of reporters notes from courtroom hearings.

Page 2

For agency use (skill codes, etc.)

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE SIMMONS USE STANDARD FORM 171-A. SEE INSTRUCTIONS

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 18


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment?...
("A 'No' will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

Dates of employment (month, year) 7/74

From 9/73 To PRESENT TIME

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 0 per
Present $ per

Avg. hrs. per week: 15
Place of employment
City: Washington
State: D.C.

Exact title of position
Student reporter
Number and kind of employees supervised: 0
Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.): Reporting Agency

Name of immediate supervisor
Bernie Richards

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
BGH Reporting Agency
24th & Penn. Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.

Area Code and phone No. if known

Reason for wanting to leave Course related - for experience only.

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments
Sat-in on public hearings and took minutes of hearings and observed courtroom procedures. Transcribed notes.

Dates of employment (month, year)

From 5/13/74 To 6/14/74

Salary of earnings
Starting $ 4.50 per hr.
Final $ same per

Avg. hrs. per week: 37-½
Place of employment
City Washington
State: D.C.

Exact title of position
Legal Secretary
Number and kind of employees supervised: 0
Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.): Congressional Office

Name of immediate supervisor
Marilyn Shapiro

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Congresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman
Longworth House Office Bldg., 3rd & C Sts. S.E.

Area Code and phone No. if known

Reason for leaving Temporary position

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Worked with research group on impeachment of Pres.
Richard M. Nixon, wrote letters to constituency around the country, handled phones, took dictation and transcribed.

Dates of employment (month, year)

From 3/70 To 3/71

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 6,500 per yr.
Final $ 7,000 per

Avg. hrs. per week: 37-½
Place of employment
City Washington
State: D.C.

Exact title of position
Secretary
Number and kind of employees supervised: 0
Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.): Educational Asso.

Name of immediate supervisor
Dr. John Mallan

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
American Association of Junior Colleges
One Dupont Circle, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Area Code and phone No. if known

Reason for leaving Moved to N.Y.C.

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Secretary to Director of Veteran Programs, kept records, arranged for travel and conferences, handled phones, typed general correspondence.

Page 2

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL LINES
SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 19


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment?.
(A "N" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

Dates of employment (month, year)

From 2/68 To PRESENT TIME

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 6.000 per yr.
Present $

Avg. hrs per week 37-½

Exact title of position
Secretary
Place of employment
City: Washington,
State: D.C.

Number and kind of employees supervised
2

Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
Management Consultants

Name of immediate supervisor
Layle Luckett

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Harbridge House, Inc.
2100 "M" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Area Code and phone No. if known
Reason for wanting to leave Due to illness, Hepatitis
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Secretary to four management consultants, wrote letters of general correspondence, kept records, arranged for conferences and travel, typed gov't. proposals, traveled occasionally.

For agency use (skill codes, etc.)

Dates of employment (month, year)

From 5/67 To 1/68

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 8500 per yr.
Final $

Avg. hrs per week 37-½

Exact title of position
Secretary
Place of employment
City: Washington,
State: D.C.

Number and kind of employees supervised
2

If Federal service, civilian or military grade
Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
Employment Agency

Name of immediate supervisor
Joyce Sarsfield

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Tabulating Research and Development Agency
14th & "K" Streets, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Area Code and phone No. if known
Reason for leaving Company went bankrupt
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Secretary to two job counselors. Typed up resumes for system analyst and programmers, filed records, typed general correspondence

For agency use (skill codes, etc.)

Dates of employment (month, year)

From 4/66 To 5/67

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 4200 per yr.
Final $

Avg. hrs per week 40

Exact title of position
Clerk-typist
Place of employment
City: Washington,
State: D.C.

Number and kind of employees supervised
0

If Federal service, civilian or military grade
Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
University

Name of immediate supervisor
Nadine Flack

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Georgetown University, 37th & "O" Sts., N.W. Washington, D.C.

Area Code and phone No. if known
Reason for leaving Resigned for higher paying position.
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments typed letters of general correspondence and filed student records, arranged for student loans, registered students.

For agency use (skill codes, etc.)

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORM 171-A OR BLANK SHEETS

Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS CORRECTLY AND FULLY

21 A. Special qualifications and skills (skills with machines; patents or inventions; your most important publications (do not submit copies unless requested); your public speaking and publications experience; membership in professional or scientific societies; etc.)

Operate Vydec Computer
Most IBM typewriters, Selectric II, Standard Electric, Executive, etc.
Operate Court Reporters model-Stenotype machine for dictation
Operate the stenorette, IBM Dictaphones & others
10 key adding & calculator machines

| B. Kind of License or Certificate (For example, pilots, registered nurse, Lawyer, radio operator, C.P.A., etc.) | C. State or other licensing authority | D. Year of first license or certificate | E. Year of latest license or certificate | F. Approximate number of words per minute: |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
|                                                                                                                 |                                       |                                         |                                          | Typing 75-80 Shorthand 120-14              |
| D.C. Drivers permit                                                                                             |                                       |                                         |                                          |                                            |

22. A. Did you graduate from high school, or will you graduate within the next nine months?

| YES  | MONTH/YEAR | NO  | HIGHEST GRADE COMPLETED |
| ---- | ---------- | --- | ----------------------- |
| 6/62 |            |     | 12                      |

B. Name and location (city and State) of last high school attended

Dunbar High School, 1st & "N" Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C.

C. Name and location (city, State, and ZIP Code if known) of college or university. (If you expect a graduate within 9 months, give MONTH and year you expect degree.)

|                                          | Dates attended | Years Completed | No. of credits compl. | Type of degree | Year of degree |               |                 |     |
| ---------------------------------------- | -------------- | --------------- | --------------------- | -------------- | -------------- | ------------- | --------------- | --- |
|                                          | From           | To              | Day                   | Night          | Semester hours | Quarter hours | (B.A., etc.)    |     |
| Strayer College 13th & "G" Streets, N.W. | 1/72           | 7/74            | 2                     | 2              | 18             | 9             | Special student |     |

D. Chief undergraduate college subjects

|     | No. of credits compl. Semester hours | Quarter hours |     |
| --- | ------------------------------------ | ------------- | --- |
|     |                                      |               |     |

E. Chief graduate college subjects

|     | No. of credits compl Semester hours | Quarter hours |
| --- | ----------------------------------- | ------------- |
|     |                                     |               |

F. Major field of study at highest level of college work

Court & Conference Reporting

G. Other schools or training (for example, trade, vocational, armed forces, or business). Give for each the name and location (city, State, and ZIP Code if known) of school, dates attended, subjects studied, number of classroom hours of instruction per week, certificates, and any other pertinent data.

Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y., Avenue, N.W. 1964
Secretarial Course, typing, speedwriting, clerical

23. HONORS, AWARDS, AND FELLOWSHIPS RECEIVED

1977 Inaugural Committee
Certificate of Appreciation
White House letter
Jury Duty Certificate

24. LANGUAGES OTHER THAN ENGLISH

List the languages and indicate your knowledge of each by placing "X" in proper columns

|      | Reading        | Speaking       | Understanding  | Writing       |
| ---- | -------------- | -------------- | -------------- | ------------- |
| none | Excl Good Fair | Excl Good Fair | Excl Good Fair | Excl Good Fai |

25. REFERENCES. List three persons who are NOT related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which you are applying. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed under Item 20, EXPERIENCE.

| FULL NAME            | PRESENT BUSINESS OR HOME ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State and ZIP Code) | BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Rev. Robert Harrison | New Samaritan Baptist Church 6th & Maryland Avenue, N.E.                    | Minister               |
| Ellis Mayo           | Manpower Office 6th & Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.                             | Job counselor          |
| Maureen Plummer      | National Center on Black Aged 1730 "M" Street, N.W.                         | Comptroller            |

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 21


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

ANSWER ITEMS 26 THROUGH 36 BY PLACING AN "X" IN THE PROPER COLUMN

26. Are you a citizen of the United States?...
    If "No," give country of which you are a citizen:

|     | Yes | No  |
| --- | :-: | :-: |
|     |  X  |     |

Before answering these questions read liems 27 and 28 in the assached instructions.

27. Are you now a member of the Communist Party, U.S.A., or any subdivision of the Communist Party, U.S.A.?.

|     |     |  X  |
| --- | :-: | :-: |
|     |     |     |

28. (a) Are you now, or within the last ten years have you been, a member of any organization, or group of persons including but not limited to the Communist Party. U.S.A., or any subdivision of the Communist Party. U.S.A., which during the period of your membership you knew was advocating or teaching that the government of the United States or any political subdivision thereof should be overthrown or overturned by force, violence, or any unlawful means?

|     |     |  X  |
| --- | :-: | :-: |
|     |     |     |

28. (b) If your answer to (a) is in the affirmative, did you, during the period of such membership, have the specific intent to further the sims of such organization of group of persons to overthrow or overturn the government of the United States or any state or any political subdivision thereof by force, violence, or any unlawful means?

|     |     |  X  |
| --- | :-: | :-: |
|     |     |     |

29. If your answer to 27 of 28(a) above is in the affirmative stare the names of such organizations and the dates of your membership in each in item 37.

30. Within the last five years have you been fired from any job for any reason?.

|     |  X  |     |
| --- | :-: | :-: |
|     |     |     |

31. Within the last five years have you quit a job after being notified that you would be fired?.
    If your answer to 30 or 31 abere is "Yes," give details in Item 37. Show the name and address (including ZIP Code) of employer, approximate dan, and reasons in each case. This information should agra with your answers in liem 20, EXPERIENCE.

|     |  X  |     |
| --- | :-: | :-: |
|     |     |     |

32. Have you ever been convicted of an offense against the law or forfeited collateral, or are you now under charges for any offense against the law? (You may omit: (1) traffic violations for which you paid paid a fine of $30.00 or less; and (2) any offense committed before your 21st birthday which was finally adjudicated in a juvenile court or under a Youth Offender law.).

|     |  X  |     |
| --- | :-: | :-: |
|     |     |     |

33. While in the military service were you ever convicted by general court-martial?.

|     | N/A |     |
| --- | :-: | :-: |
|     |     |     |

If your answer to 32 of 33 is "Yea," give details in Item 37. Sbow for each offense: (1) date; (2) charge; (3) place; (4) court; and (3) action taken.

34. Does the United States Government employ in a civilian capacity or as a member of the Armed Forces any relative of yours (by blood or marriage)? (See Items 34 and 35 in the attached instruction sheet.).

|     |     |  X  |
| --- | :-: | :-: |
|     |     |     |

35. Do you live with, or within the past 12 months have you lived with, any of these relatives who are employed in a civilian capacity?.
    If your answer to 34 is "Yes," give in Item 37 for such relatives: (1) full name; sme; (2) present address (including ZIP Code); (3) relationship: (4) depart-ment, agency, or branch of the Armed Forces. If your anruer to 35 is "Yes," also give the kind of appointment held by the relative(s) you live with or beve lived with within the past 12 months.

|     |     |  X  |
| --- | :-: | :-: |
|     |     |     |

36. Do you receive or do you have a pending application for retirement or retainer pay, pension, or other compensation based upon military, Federal civilian, or District of Columbia Government service?.
    If your answer is "Yes," give details in Item 37.

|     |     |  X  |
| --- | :-: | :-: |
|     |     |     |

Your Statement cannot be processed until you have answered all questions, including liems 26 through 36 above. Be sure you have placed an "X" to the left of EVERY marker() above, either in the "Yes" or the "No" column.

37. Space for detailed answers. Indicate Item number to which answers apply.

Item No.

If more space is required, use full sheets of paper approximately the same size as this page. Write on EACH sheet your name, birth date, and ausmacement of position title. Attach all sheets to this Statement at the top of Page 3.

ATTENTION - THIS STATEMENT MUST BE SIGNED

Read the following paragraph carefully before signing this-Statement

A teice answer to any question in this Statement may be grounds for not omploying you, or for dismasing you after you begin work, and may be punishable by fino or Imprisonment (U.S. Code, Title 18, Sec. 1001). All statements are subject to avestigation, Induding a check of your fingerprints, police records, and formar omployem. All the Information you givo will bo considsrod in reviewing your Statement and is subject to investigation. A false answer to Items 27 er 28 could deprive you of your right to an annuity when you reach ratirement age in addition to the penalHea described above.

CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY that all of the statements made in this Statement are true, complete, and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief, and are made in good faith.

![Signature]

DATE SIGNED

May 17, 1977

Page 4

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 22


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# UNITED STATES CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
# NOTICE OF RATING
APPLICANT MUST FILL IN ALL BLANKS IN THIS SECTION ONLY

## TITLE OF EXAMINATION
Stenographer and Typist

## PLACE OF EXAMINATION
Washington, D.C.

## DATE OF TEST
April 25, 1977

## NAME AND ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State and ZIP Code)
Lillian B. Johnson
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875

This is not a notice of appointment. It is a record of your rating. It is important that you keep it.

## PERIOD OF CONSIDERATION FROM ISSUE DATE
* 6 MONTHS
* 12 MONTHS
* 3 years SEE REVERSE SIDE

You are ELIGIBLE for the following grade(s):

| CLERK-TYPIST | CLERK-STENOGRAPHER | CLERK-DICTATING MACHINE TRANSCRIBER | CLERK-STENOGRAPHER (TRAINEE) |
| ------------ | ------------------ | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| GS-2         | GS-3               | GS-3                                | GS-2                         |
| GS-3         | GS-4               | GS-4                                |                              |
| GS-4         | GS-5               |                                     |                              |

AMOUNT OF VETEPAN PREFERENCE INCLUDED IN YOUR RATING:

| YOUR NUMERICAL RATING IS | FOR CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION USE ONLY               |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------- |
| 82.0                     | TEST SCORES GENERAL TEST (CLERICAL PLUS VERBAL) 102 |
| 5-PTS                    | TYPING 64/6                                         |
| 10-PTS                   | DICTATION 119                                       |
|                          | CLERICAL 61                                         |
|                          | VERBAL 41                                           |


You are INELIGIBLE for the following grade(s):

| CLERK-TYPIST | CLERK-STENOGRAPHER | CLERK-DICTATING MACHINE TRANSCRIBER | CLERK-STENOGRAPHER (TRAINEE) |
| ------------ | ------------------ | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| GS-2         | GS-3               | GS-3                                | GS-2                         |
| GS-3         | GS-4               | GS-4                                |                              |
| GS-4         | GS-5               |                                     |                              |

REASON FOR INELIGIBILITY:

*   You did not earn a passing score for the grade(s), checked ineligible, therefore no numerical rating is assigned for them.
*   You did not pass the typing performance test.
*   You did not pass the stenography performance test.
*   Your lowest acceptable salary is higher than that of the position in which you qualify.
*   Your qualifications statement does not show that you meet the minimum experience or education required for the grade(s) checked ineligible.
*   You failed to reply to official correspondence.

THE ITEMS CHECKED BELOW APPLY TO YOU:

*   You passed the general tests. If you recompete, you need retake only the typing part (and oictating part if you apply for stenographer) of the test. You must also present this notice and a Personal Qualifications Statement, Standard Form 171.
*   You failed the stenography test only. If you recompete, you need retake only that test. You must also present this notice and a Personal Qualifications Statement, S.F. 171.
*   You may not enter on duty until completion of required education is shown.
*   Your qualifications statement is attached in case you wish to apply for a different position.

| DATE OF ISSUE  | ISSUING OFFICE |                                        |
| -------------- | -------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| April 25, 1977 | 099            | United States Civil Service Commission |
|                |                | 1900 E Street, N.W.                    |
|                |                | Washington, D.C. 20415                 |

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 23

BE SURE TO READ THE IMPORTANT MESSAGES ON THE BACK OF THIS FORM

Part I
CSC FORM 4008-C
OCTOBER 1973


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# Superior Court

## of the District of Columbia

## Certificate of Appreciation

LILLIAN B. JOHNSON, having served with distinction as a juror in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia during the month of JANUARY, 1975, is presented this certificate of appreciation for significant community service by the Judges of the Court on behalf of the grateful citizens of the District of Columbia.

![seal]

Arnold h. Greene

CHIEF JUDGE

![signature]

EXECUTIVE OFFICER,
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 24


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

## Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

August 16, 1977

TO: BECKY

FROM: NANCY

RE: LILLIAN JOHNSON

Thought you would want a copy of her resume. She will be starting 8-29-77.

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 25


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

Your assistance with the 1977 Inauguration meant a
great deal to me personally. More importantly, it was a great
example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing
our talents and energies with each other.

![signature of Jimmy Carter]

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 26


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# RESUME

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875
(301) 772-3341(H)
(202) 755-6808(0)

Position Desired - Administrative Assistant/Secretarial

Experience - District of Columbia

5/77 - Present Department of Housing and Urban Development
451 7th Street, S.W. Clerk-typist

12/76 - 2/77 1977 Presidential Inaugural Committee
2nd & "T" Streets, S.W.
Administrative Assistant/Site Coordinator

9/76 - 11/76 Congressional Budget Office
2nd & "D" Streets, S.W. Secretary

7/76 - 9/76 Stuart Temporaries, Inc.
1120 -19th Street, N.W. Secretary

8/74 - 9/75 Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
18th & "H" Streets, N.W. Legal Secretary

11/73 - 8/74 Temporaries, Inc., 1015 18th Street, N.W. Secretary

5/13 - 6/14 Longworth House Office Building, N.J. & "C"
Streets, S.E. Secretary

1/73 - 8/73 Model Inner Cities Community Organization
9th & "U" Streets, N.W. Executive Secretary

3/70 - 3/71 American Association of Junior Colleges
One Dupont Circle, N.W. Secretary

2/68 - 1/70 Harbridge House, Inc.
2100 "M" Street, N.W. Support Secretary

5/67 - 1/68 Tabulating Research & Development Agency
14th & "K" Streets, N.W. Secretary

5/66 - 5/67 Georgetown University, 37th & "0" Streets, N.W.
Clerk-typist


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

## Resume - Lillian B. Johnson Cont'd

Education:

1/72 - 7/47 Strayer College, 13th & "G" Streets, N.W.
Studied Court & Conference Reporting, Stenotype,
Legal reporting and advanced vocabulary

9/63 - 6/64 Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y. Avenue,
N.W. Secretarial Course

9/59 - 6/62 Graduate of Dunbar High School, 1st & "N"
Streets, N.W. Commercial Courses

Skills: Stenotypist 100 - 140 wpm. Typist 75 - 80

Seeking opportunity for career professional position
willing to start as trainee, willing to travel occasionally

Personal:

Divorced

One daughter age 8 years.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# RESUME

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875
(301) 772-3341(H)
(202) 755-6808(0)

Position Desired - Administrative Assistant/Secretarial

Experience - District of Columbia

5/77 - Present Department of Housing and Urban Development
451 7th Street, S.W. Clerk-typist

12/76 - 2/77 1977 Presidential Inaugural Committee
2nd & "T" Streets, S.W.
Administrative Assistant/Site Coordinator

9/76 - 11/76 Congressional Budget Office
2nd & "D" Streets, S.W. Secretary

7/76 - 9/76 Stuart Temporaries, Inc.
1120 -19th Street, N.W. Secretary

8/74 - 9/75 Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
18th & "H" Streets, N.W. Legal Secretary

11/73 - 8/74 Temporaries, Inc., 1015 18th Street, N.W.
Secretary

5/13 - 6/14 Longworth House Office Building, N.J. & "C"
Streets, S.E. Secretary

1/73 - 8/73 Model Inner Cities Community Organization
9th & "U" Streets, N.W. Executive Secretary

3/70 - 3/71 American Association of Junior Colleges
One Dupont Circle, N.W. Secretary

2/68 - 1/70 Harbridge House, Inc.
2100 "M" Street, N.W. Support Secretary

5/67 - 1/68 Tabulating Research & Development Agency
14th & "K" Streets, N.W. Secretary

5/66 - 5/67 Georgetown University, 37th & "O" Streets, N.W.
Clerk-typist


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

-2- Resume - Lillian B. Johnson Cont'

Education:

1/72 - 7/47 Strayer College, 13th & "G" Streets, N.W.
Studied Court & Conference Reporting, Stenotype,
Legal reporting and advanced vocabulary

9/63 - 6/64 Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y. Avenue, N.W. Secretarial Course

9/59 - 6/62 Graduate of Dunbar High School, 1st & "N" Streets, N.W. Commercial Courses

Skills: Stenotypist 100 - 140 wpm. Typist 75 - 80
Seeking opportunity for career professional position
willing to start as trainee, willing to travel occasional

Personal: Divorced

One daughter age 8 years.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# 1977 Inaugural Committee

![Inauguration of the president and vice president seal]

February 7, 1977

Dear Ms. Johnson:

President Carter and Vice President Mondale have asked us to express their sincere appreciation to you for your most commendable efforts in support of the 1977 Inauguration.

The Inauguration of the President of the United States is a moment in history that serves as a vehicle to communicate to the world the commitment and spirit of the New Administration.

It is with this in mind that I forward this letter to you as a member of the Inaugural Security and Credential Committee. You displayed the highest degree of professionalism and dedication in many important tasks.

You were always willing and ready to work long hours, above and beyond the normal work day. You volunteered your services for almost anything asked of you.

Throughout the planning and implementation period, you were faced with an everchanging list of requirements. Your dedication to duty, understanding of the difficulties faced by the Inaugural Committee, and cooperative attitude are indicative of a true professional. Your overall manner of performance was truly outstanding.

If we had the power today, each of you would receive a tangible medal of citation for the highest award of Volunteer Action. Possessing only words, we say again, thank you for all the service given so unselfishly.

Sincerely,

![signature]
Frank Wilson, Director
Security & Credentials Committee

![signature]
Donald Brock, Deputy Chief
In Charge of Internal Security

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 31


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

![Seal of the President and Vice President Inauguration]

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON

served with distinction on behalf of the
Armed Forces of the United States
at the Inauguration of

Jimmy Carter

on the twentieth day of January,
one thousand, nine-hundred seventy-seven
in Washington, District of Columbia

Bardy R. Tirana Vicki Rogers Robert G. Yerks
Co-Chairpersons Chairman
1977 Inaugural Committee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

February 3, 1977

To Lillian Johnson

I deeply appreciate your dedicated and untiring work on the 1977 inauguration. The inaugural program was a great success, open to all of our citizens. This would not have been possible without the unselfish help, cheerful spirit and long hours freely given by volunteers such as you.

You have helped to set an example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing our talents and energies with each other. Many thanks.

Sincerely,

![Signature of Jimmy Carter]

Miss Lillian Johnson

7516 Forest Road

Landover, Maryland 20875


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

Your assistance with the 1977 Inauguration meant a great deal to me personally. More importantly, it was a great example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing our talents and energies with each other.

![signature of Jimmy Carter]

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 34


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

Life Experience: Inauguration of President and Vice President
of the United States, 1977 Presidential
Inaugural Committee, Washington, D.C.

Position Descriptors

Competency Statement

As Site Coordinator &
Administrative Assistant
of the Inaugural Committee's
Security & Credential division,
I have:

A. Acquired knowledge as to how
legislative priorities are set

B. Held high level administrative
responsibility in operating the
office

C. Supervised productivity, flow of
work and overall operations of
our office with top United States
Secret Service officials and
congressional members.

D. Through the concept of creative
office leadership I have assisted
in planning, organizing and con-
trolling the operations of presi-
dential security

E. Utilize techniques to help main-
tain good employee relations
through effective supervision,
delegation, evaluating, training,
and thorough communications with
USSS.

F. Arranged and made contacts with
top USSS agents, presidential
advance team, and congressional
members for indepth security
conferences.

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 35


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# AMENDMENT TO
PERSONAL QUALIFICATIONS STATEMENT

IMPORTANT: Read these instructions carefully before completing this form.

OMB
APPROVED 50-R0048

This form may be used to update your Personal Qualifications Statement provided you have had no more than three additional positions since the statement being updated was completed. Agencies are required to accept a previously completed Personal Qualifications Statement as current when this form is attached. Before completing this form, review carefully your answers to all items on the statement being updated. Use typewriter if available. Otherwise write or print legibly in dark ink.

1. NAME (Last) (First) (Middle) (Maiden, if any)☐ MR. ☐ MISS MRS.
   AND ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, and ZIP Code)

JOHNSON, Lillian Barbara Killens.

7516.Forest. Road.

Hyattsville, Maryland 20875

2. DATE OF THIS STATEMENT 3. BIRTH DATE (month, day, year)

May 17, 1977

December 6, 1943

4. KIND OF POSITION YOU ARE FILING FOR (Or title and number of announcement) 5. REASON FOR SUBMISSION (Check One)

Security Assistant 15-21 (77)A

To update Personal Qualifications Statement in my Official Personal Folder

To update Personal Qualifications Statement on file with you

To update attached Personal Qualifications Statement

As requested

6. LOWEST PAY OR GRADE YOU WILL ACCEPT

PAY GRADE

$
or 7

7. EXPERIENCE (Start with your PRESENT position and work back. Account for periods of unemployment in separate blocks in order)
   May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? ☐ Yes ☐ No (A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities.)

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year)
EXACT TITLE OF POSITION
IF FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN OR MILITARY GRADE
FROM May 9, 1977 TO PRESENT TIME
Clerk-typist 5

SALARY OR EARNINGS AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
(manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
STARTING $ 179. PER Week PER WEEK CITY: Washington, EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED Housing & Urban Developm
40 STATE: D.C. 0

FINAL $

NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)

Charles Field

Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD)
Washington, D.C. 20410

AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN

REASON FOR WANTING TO LEAVE Seeking position involving more responsibility and opportunity

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS Prepare in final form a variety of materials including correspondence, staff studies, technical papers, memoranda and issue papers which include the use of terminology that is highly specialized. Responsible for maintenance of subject matter files for the staff. (Even though this job description does not indicate), I have taken dictation and transcribed it for the Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Housing and Urban Development. Perform all secretarial duties.

FOR AGENCY USE (skill codes, etc.)
DATES OF EMPLOYMENT (month, year)
EXACT TITLE OF POSITION IF FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN OR MILITARY GRADE
FROM TO

SALARY OR EARNINGS AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT NUMBER AND KIND OF KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
(manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
STARTING $
FINAL $

PER WEEK CITY: EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED
STATE:

NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR NAME OF EMPLOYER (firm, organization, etc.) AND ADDRESS (including ZIP Code, if known)

AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN

REASON FOR LEAVING

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS

THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

FOR AGENCY USE (skill codes, etc.)

Standard Form 172, January 1972
U.S. Civil Service Commission
172-102

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 36


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

DATES OF EMPLOYMENT *(month, year)*

FROM TO

EXACT TITLE OF POSITION

SALARY OR EARNINGS

STARTING $ PER

FINAL $ PER

AVG. HRS. PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT
PER WEEK
CITY:
STATE:

NUMBER AND KIND OF
EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED

IF FEDERAL SERVICE, CIVILIAN
OR MILITARY GRADE

KIND OF BUSINESS OR ORGANIZATION
*(manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)*

NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR

NAME OF EMPLOYER *(firm, organization, etc.)* AND ADDRESS *(including ZIP Code, if known)*

AREA CODE AND PHONE NO. IF KNOWN

REASON FOR LEAVING

DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES, AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS

FOR AGENCY USE *(skill codes, etc.)*

8. Space for explaining other changes or additions to the qualifications statement being updated. If any answer to an item on the qualifications statement being updated is incorrect or incomplete as of the date of this amendment, identify the item by number and explain. (Check one) ☐ Other changes or additions listed below☐ No other changes or additions.

ITEM If more space is required, use full sheets of paper approximately the same size as this page. Write on EACH sheet your name, position (or title and number
NO. of announcement) filing for, and date of the qualifications statement being updated. Attach all sheets to this form.

CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY that the statements made by me me on this form update my Personal Qualifications Statement completed 5/17/77 (month, year) and are true, complete, and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief, and are made in good faith.

SIGNATURE (Sign in ink)

FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM IS PUNISHABLE BY LAW

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 37

GPO: 1972 0-453-449


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# Administrative Asst.,

LA. Kind of position (job) you are filing for (or title of announcement)

B. Announcement No.

C. Options for which you wish to be considered (if listed in announcement)

Legislative Aide

D. Primary place(s) you wish to be employed

Washington, D.C., Metropolitan area

2. Home phone (including Area Code) 3. Office phone (including Area Code)

772-3341 (301) 775-5860

4. Name (Last) (First) (Middle) (Maiden, if any) Mr. X Miss Mrs.
   and Address (Number, Street, City, State and ZIP Code)

JOHNSON, Lillian Barbara Killens
7516 Forest Road
Hyattsville, Maryland 20875

5. Legal or voting residence (State)

District of Columbia

6. Height without shoes 7. Weight

5 Feet 7 1/4 inches 135 lbs

8. Birthplace (City and State, or foreign country)

District of Columbia

9. Birth date (Month, day, year) 10. Social Security Account Number

12/6/43 577 56 7465

11. If you have ever been employed by the Federal Government as a civilian, give your last classification series, grade, and job title.

GS-318-5 Clerk-typist

Dates of service in that grade

From To

May 9, 1977 Present time

12. If you are currently on a list of eligibles for appointment to a Federal position, give the name of the announcement, the name of the office maintaining the list, the date on your notice of rating, and your rating.

Stenographer and Typist
United States Civil Service Commission
Federal Register
April 25, 1977 - Typist 4 - Steno 5

13. Lowest pay or grade you will accept

$

PAY per yr. OR GRADE 5

15. Will you accept temporary employment for:

YES NO

(Acceptance or refusal of 1 month or less?
X
temporary employment will 1 to 4 months?
X
not affect your consideration
for other appointments.) 4 to 12 months?
x*

14. When will you be available?

upon notification

YES NO 16. Where will you accept a job?

Washington, D.C.
X
Any place in the United States.

Outside of the United States.

Only in (specify): metro area
X

YES NO 17. Will you accept less than full time (Less than 40 hours per week) Ye

18. Are you willing to travel? (Check one)

NO SOME

X

19. VETERAN PREFERENCE. Answer all parts. If a part does not apply to you, answer "No."

A. Have you ever served on active duty in the United States military service? (Exclude tours of active duty for training as a reservist or Guardsmon.)

B. Have you ever been discharged from the armed services under other than honorable conditions? (You may omit any such discharge changed to honorable by a Discharge Review Board or similar authority.)...
If "Yes," give details in Item 37.

C. Do you claim 5-point preference based on active duty in the armed forces?..
If "Yes," you will be required to furnish records to support your claim at the time you are appointed.

D. Do you claim 10-point preference?..
If "Yes," check type of preference claimed and complete and attach Standard Form 15. "Claim for 10-point Veteran Preference," together with the proof in that form

TYPE: Compensable disability Disability Wife Widow

E. List Dates, Branch, and Serial or Service Number of All Active Service (Enter "N/A" if not applicable)

From To Branch of Service Serial or Service Number

N/A

THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

Page 1

Standard Form 171
May. 1975 U.S. Civil Service Com.
171-105

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 38


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? (A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

Exact title of position Security-Credls.
Site Coordinator/Secretary

Dates of employment (month, year)

1
From 12/30/76
TO PRESENT TIME

Salary or earings
Starting $150.00 per wk
Present $ same per

Avg. hrs. per week 50

Place of employment City: Washington State: D.C.

Number and kind of employees supervised several-100 volunteers

Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurera, etc.) 1977 Inaugural Comte.

Name of immediate supervisor
Frank Wilson, Director

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if knoun)
1977 Inaugural Committee, 2nd & "D" Streets, S.V Washington, D.C. 20024

Area Code and phone No. if known 202/472-4350

Reason for wanting to leave Job is terminating on 1/31/77

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Instructing several sub-committees within the Inaugural Committee on procedure and preparation of security clearance forms. Processing and preparing S.C. forms for security pick-up. Communication by phone on a very large scale with Secret Service, White House and many other agencies for Inauguration. Worked with the director preparing and designing security credentials. Sat-in on meetings Security & Press Personnel, took dictation and kept minutes. Operated the Command Post at Visitors Center. Typed letter, memorandums, etc., Presently working on After Action Report. Served as central point of information concerning activities of the office.

For agency use (skill codes, etc.)

Dates of employment (month, year)

2
From 9/76
To 11/76

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 10,096. per yr.
Final $ same per

Avg. hrs. per week 40

Exact title of position Secretary/Personnel Asst.
Place of employment City: Washington State: D.C.

Number and kind of employees supervised none

Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insuвтина, etc.) Federal

Name of immediate supervisor
Carl McCarden/Alicia McPhee

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if kneum)
Congressional Budget Office 2nd & "D" Streets, S.W.

Area Code and phone No. if known 202/225-6666

Reason for leaving Temporary position

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Secretary in Budget Analysis Division, Human Resource and Personnel Office. Worked with several Analyst. Typed up proposals, budget reports, general correspondence and telephone communications. Operated the Vydec Computer in all divisions.

For agency use (skill codes, etc.)

Dates of employment (meath, year)

3
Prom 7/76
To 9/76

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 4.75 per hr.
Final $ same per

Avg. hrs. per week 180.

Exact title of position Secretary/Legal Asst.
Place of employment City: Washington State: D.C.

Number and kind of employees supervised none

If Federal service, civilian or military grade Temporary Agency
Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insuraπα, etc.) secretarial agency

Name of immediate supervisor
Ms. Susan Heuser

Name of employer (firm, organizatise, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Stuart Temporaries, Inc. 1120 -19th Street, N.W.

Ares Code and phone No. if known

Reason for leaving memporary placement agency.

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Worked on several legal assignments on short-term. Secretary to attorneys. Performed general secretarial duties, typing drafts, briefs, other correspondence, and telephone communication.

For agency use (skill codes, etc.)

Page 2

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORM 171-A OR BLANK SHEETS SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 39


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

20. EXPERIENCE (Start with your PRESENT position and work back. Account for periods of unemployment in separate blocks in order.)

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment?...
(A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

Dates of employment (month, year) 9/75

From '8/74 To PRESENT TIME

Salary or earnings Exact title of position

Starting $ 10,500 per Yr. Legal Secretary

Present $ same per Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees

per week City: Washington supervised 0

State: D.C.

Name of immediate supervisor Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)

JoAnna McAtee Law Firm

Area Code and phone No. if known

Reason for wanting to leave laid off

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Arent, Fox, Kintner, Plotkin & Kahn
1815 "H" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Legal Secretary to several attorneys in the firm, in areas of litigation, real estate, tax, labor, Federal Communications-took dictation, wrote letters of general correspondence, kept records, typed briefs, proposals, etc. Telephone communications with clients and other firms, etc.

For agency use (skill codes, etc.) 1/72-6/74

(THE NEXT THREE JOBS LISTED BELOW WERE COURSE RELATED WHILE ATTENDING STRAYER COLLEGE)

Dates of employment (month, year)

From 11/73 To 8/74

Salary or earnings Exact title of position

Starting $ 4.50 per hr. Secretary

Final $ per Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)

per week City: Washington supervised 0

State: D.C. Secretarial Service

Name of immediate supervisor

Clara, Bob Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

Temporaries, Inc., 1015 -18th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C.

Area Code and phone No. if known

Reason for leaving temporary job

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Gained experienced in working with many law firms in the area as Legal, Executive, Statistical and Technical Secretary on short-term assignments.

For agency use (skill codes, etc.)

Dates of employment (month, year)

From 4/73 To 6/73

Salary or earnings Exact title of position

Starting $ 3.50 per hr. Transcriber

Final $ per Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)

per week City: Washington supervised 0

State: D.C. Reporting Agency

Name of immediate supervisor Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)

Doris Hoover Hoover Reporting Agency

3rd & Mass. Ave., N.E., Washington, D.C.

Area Code and phone No. if known

Reason for leaving Course related - for experience mostly.

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Transcriber of reporters notes from courtroom hearings.

For agency use (skill codes, etc.)

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS USE STANDARD FORM 171-A OR SEE INSTRUCTION

Page 2

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 40


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

May. inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment? ("A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

7 Dates of employment (month, year) 7/74
From 9/73 To PRESENT TIME
Salary or earnings
Starting $ 0 per
Present $ per
Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees
per week City: Washington supervised
15 State: D.C. 0
If Federal service, civilian or military grade
Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
Reporting Agency

Name of immediate supervisor
Bernie Richards
Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
BGH Reporting Agency
24th & Penn. Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.

Area Code and phone No. if known
Reason for wanting to leave Course related - for experience only.
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments
Sat-in on public hearings and took minutes of hearings and observed courtroom procedures. Transcribed notes.


8 Dates of employment (month, year)
From 5/13/74 To 6/14/74
Salary or earnings
Starting $ 4.50 per hr.
Final $ same per
Name of immediate supervisor
Marilyn Shapiro
Area Code and phone No. if known
Exact title of position
Legal Secretary
Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees
per week City: Washington, supervised
37- State: D.C. 0
For agency use (skill codes, etc.)
If Federal service, civilian or military grade
Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
Congressional Office
Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Congresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman
Longworth House Office Bldg., 3rd & C Sts. S.E.
Reason for leaving Temporary position
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Worked with research group on impeachment of Pres. Richard M. Nixon, wrote letters to constituency around the country, handled phones, took dictation and transcribed.


9 Dates of employment (month, year)
From 3/70 To 3/71
Salary or earnings
Starting $ 6,500 per yr.
Final $ 7,000 per
Name of immediate supervisor
Dr. John Mallan
Area Code and phone No. if known
Exact title of position
Secretary
Avg. hrs. Place of employment Number and kind of employees
per week City: Washington, supervised
37- State: D.C. 0
For agency use (skill codes, etc.)
If Federal service, civilian or military grade
Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
Educational Asso.
Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
American Association of Junior Colleges
One Dupont Circle, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Reason for leaving Moved to N.Y.C.
Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Secretary to Director of Veteran Programs, kept records, arranged for travel and conferences, handled phones, typed general correspondence.

For agency use (skill codes, etc.)

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS, USE STANDARD FORM 171-A -171-A-1 (BLANK SHEET).
SEE INSTRUCTION SHEET
Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

## 20. EXPERIENCE (Start with your PRESENT position and work back. Account for all periods of unemployment and part-time employment, in addition to full-time employment. )

May inquiry be made of your present employer regarding your character, qualifications, and record of employment?..
(A "No" will not affect your consideration for employment opportunities except for HEARING EXAMINER positions.)

Dates of employment (month, year)

From 2/68 To 1/70

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 6.000 per yr.
Present $
per

Name of immediate supervisor
Layle Luckett

Area Code and phone No. if known

Reason for wanting to leave Due to illness, Hepatitis

Avg. hrs. Place of employment
per week City: Washington
37-½ State: D.C.

Exact title of position
Secretary

Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
supervised
2 Management Consultants

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Harbridge House, Inc.
2100 "M" Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Secretary to four management consultants, wrote letters of general correspondence, kept records, arranged for conferences and travel, typed gov't. proposals, traveled occasionally.

Dates of employment (month, year)
From 5/67 To 1/68

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 8500 per yr.
Final $
per

Name of immediate supervisor
Joyce Sarsfield

Area Code and phone No. if known

Reason for leaving Company went bankrupt

Avg. hrs. Place of employment
per week City: Washington
37-½ State: D.C.

Exact title of position
Secretary

Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
supervised
2 Employment Agency

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Tabulating Research and Development Agency
14th & "K" Streets, N.W., Washington, D.C.

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments Secretary to two job counselors. Typed up resumes for system analyst and programmers, filed records, typed general correspondence

Dates of employment (month, year)
From 4/66 To 5/67

Salary or earnings
Starting $ 4200 per yr.
Final $
per

Name of immediate supervisor
Nadine Flack

Area Code and phone No. if known

Reason for leaving resigned for higher paying position.

Avg. hrs. Place of employment
per week City: Washington
40 State: D.C.

Exact title of position
Clerk-typist

Number and kind of employees Kind of business or organization (manufacturing, accounting, insurance, etc.)
supervised
0 University

Name of employer (firm, organization, etc.) and address (including ZIP Code, if known)
Georgetown University, 37th & "O" Sts., N.W. Washington, D.C.

Description of duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments typed letters of general correspondence and filed student records, arranged for student loans, registered students.

Page 2

IF YOU NEED ADDITIONAL EXPERIENCE BLOCKS ICE STANDARD FORM 171-A OR BLANK SHEETS .


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS CORRECTLY AND FULLY

21 A. Special qualifications and skills (skills with machines; patents or inventions; your most important publications (do not submit copies unless requested); your public speaking and publications experience; membership in professional or scientific societies; etc.)

Operate Vydec Computer
Most IBM typewriters, Selectric II, Standard Electric, Executive, etc.
Operate Court Reporters model-Stenotype machine for dictation
Operate the stenorette, IBM Dictaphones & others
10 key adding & calculator machines

B. Kind of License or Certificate (For example, pilot, registered nurse, lawyer, radio operator, C.P.A., etc.)

D.C. Drivers permit

C. State or other licensing authority D. Year of first license or certificate E. Year of latest license or certificate F. Approximate number of words per minute:
Typing
Shorthand
75-80 120-14

22. A. Did you graduate from high school, or will you graduate within the next nine months?

| YES | MONTH/YEAR | NO  | HIGHEST GRADE COMPLETED |
| --- | ---------- | --- | ----------------------- |
| X   | 6/62       |     | 12                      |

B. Name and location (city and State) of last high school attended

Dunbar High School, 1st & "N" Streets, N.W. Washington, D.C.

C. Name and location (city, State, and ZIP Code if known) of college or university. (If you expect a graduate within 9 months, give MONTH and year you expect degree.)

Strayer College
13th & "G" Streets, N.W.

| Dates attended | Years Completed | No. of credits compl. | Type of degree/Year of degree |                |               |                 |
| -------------- | --------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------- | ------------- | --------------- |
| From           | To              | Day                   | Night                         | Semester hours | Quarter hours |                 |
| 1/72           | 7/74            | 2                     | 2                             | 18             | 9             | Special student |

D. Chief undergraduate college subjects

| No. of credits compl. | E. Chief graduate college subjects | No. of credits compl. |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------------- | --------------------- |
| Semester hours        | Quarter hours                      |                       |
|                       |                                    |                       |
|                       |                                    |                       |
|                       |                                    |                       |

F. Major field of study at highest level of college work

Court & Conference Reporting

G. Other schools or training (for example, trade, vocational, armed forces, or business). Give for each the name and location (city, State, and ZIP Code if known) of school, dates attended, subjects studied, number of classroom hours of instruction per week, certificates, and any other pertinent data.

Johnson's Business School, 14th & N.Y., Avenue, N.W. 1964
Secretarial Course, typing, speedwriting, clerical

23. HONORS, AWARDS, AND FELLOWSHIPS RECEIVED

1977 Inaugural Committee
Certificate of Appreciation
White House letter
Jury Duty Certificate

| 24. LANGUAGES OTHER THAN ENGLISH                                                        | Reading        | Speaking       | Understanding  | Writing        |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | -------------- | -------------- | -------------- |
| List the languages and indicate your knowledge of each by placing "X" in proper columns | Excl Good Fair | Excl Good Fair | Excl Good Fair | Excl Good Fair |
| none                                                                                    |                |                |                |                |

25. REFERENCES. List three persons who are NOT related to you and who have definite knowledge of your qualifications and fitness for the position for which you are applying. Do not repeat names of supervisors listed under Item 20, EXPERIENCE.

| FULL NAME            | PRESENT BUSINESS OR HOME ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State and ZIP Code) | BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Rev. Robert Harrison | New Samaritan Baptist Church 6th & Maryland Avenue, N.E.                    | Minister               |
| Ellis Mayo           | Manpower Office 6th & Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.                             | Job counselor          |
| Maureen Plummer      | National Center on Black Aged 1730 "M" Street, N.W.                         | Comptroller            |

Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

ANSWER ITEMS 26 THROUGH 36 BY PLACING AN "X" IN THE PROPER COLUMN

26. Are you a citizen of the United States?.................................................................................................................................
    If "No." give country of which you are a citizen:

|     | Yes | No  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|     | X   |     |

Before answering these questions read Items 27 and 28 in the attached instructions.

27. Are you now a member of the Communist Party, U.S.A., or any subdivision of the Communist Party, U.S.A.?...................................

|     |     | X   |
| --- | --- | --- |

28. (a) Are you now, or within the last ten years have you been, a member of any organization, or group of persons including but not limited
    to the Communist Party, U.S.A., or any subdivision of the Communist Party, U.S.A., which during the period of your membership you knew
    was advocating or teaching that the government of the United States or any political subdivision thereof should be overthrown or overturned by
    force, violence, or any unlawful means?......................................................................................................................................................

|     |     | X   |
| --- | --- | --- |

28. (b) If your answer to (a) is in the affirmative, did you, during the period of such membership, have the specific intent to further the aims of
    such organization or group of persons to overthrow or overturn the government of the United States or any state or any political subdivision
    thereof by force, violence, or any unlawful means?......................................................................................................................................................

|     |     | X   |
| --- | --- | --- |

29. If your answer to 27 or 28(a) above is in the affirmative state the names of such organizations and the dates of your membership in each in
    item 37.

30. Within the last five years have you been fired from any job for any reason?....................................................................................................
31. Within the last five years have you quit a job after being notified that you would be fired?..................................................................................
    *If your answer to 30 or 31 above is "Yes," give details in Item 37. Show the name and address (including ZIP Code) of employer, approximate date, and
    reasons in each case. This information should agree with your answers in Item 20, EXPERIENCE.*

|     | X   |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
|     | X   |     |

32. Have you ever been convicted of an offense against the law or forfeited collateral, or are you now under charges for any offense against the law?
    (You may omit: (1) traffic violations for which you paid a fine of $30.00 or less; and (2) any offense committed before your 21st birthday which
    was finally adjudicated in a juvenile court or under a Youth Offender law.).................................................................................................................

|     | X   |     |
| --- | --- | --- |

33. While in the military service were you ever convicted by general court-martial?.................................................................................................
    *If your answer to 32 or 33 is "Yes," give details in Item 37. Show for each offense: (1) date; (2) charge; (3) place; (4) court; and (5) action taken.*

|     |     | n/a |
| --- | --- | --- |

34. Does the United States Government employ in a civilian capacity or as a member of the Armed Forces any relative of yours (by blood or marriage)?
    (See Items 34 and 35 in the attached instruction sheet.).........................................................................................................................................

35. Do you live with, or within the past 12 months have you lived with, any of these relatives who are employed in a civilian capacity?................
    *If your answer to 34 is "Yes," give in Item 37 for such relatives: (1) full name; (2) present address (including ZIP Code); (3) relationship; (4) depart-
    ment, agency, or branch of the Armed Forces. If your answer to 35 is "Yes," also give the kind of appointment held by the relative(s) you live with or have
    lived with within the past 12 months.*

|     | X   |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
|     | X   |     |

36. Do you receive or do you have a pending application for retirement or retainer pay, pension, or other compensation based upon military, Federal
    civilian, or District of Columbia Government service?........................................................................................................................................
    *If your answer is "Yes," give details in Item 37.*

|     | X   |     |
| --- | --- | --- |

Your Statement cannot be processed until you have answered all questions, including Items 26 through 36 above. Be sure you have placed en "X" to the left of EVERY
marker (◄) above, either in the "Yes" or the "No" column.

37. Space for detailed answers. Indicate Item number to which answers apply.
    Item No.

If more space is required, use full sheets of paper approximately the same size as this page. Write on EACH sheet your name, birth date, and announcement or
position title. Attach all sheets to this Statement at the top of Page 3.

ATTENTION - THIS STATEMENT MUST BE SIGNED

Read the following paragraph carefully before signing this-Ratement

A felce answer to any question in this Statement may be grounds for net omploying you, or for dismasing you after you begin
work, and may be punishable by fine or Imprisonment (U.S. Code, Title 18, Sec. 1001). All statements are subject to investigation,
Induding a check of your fingerprints, police racords, and former employers. All the Information you givo will be considered in
reviewing your Statement and is subjaet to Investigation. A false answer to items 27 or 28 could deprive you of your right to an
annuity when you reach retirement age in addition to the penalties desertbed above.

CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY that all of the statements made in this Statement
are true, complete, and correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief, and are made in good faith.

Page 4

SIGNATURE (Sign in ink)

![signature]

DATE SIGNED

May 17, 1977

![numbers]

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 44


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# UNITED STATES CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
## NOTICE OF RATING
APPLICANT MUST FILL IN ALL BLANKS IN THIS SECTION ONLY

TITLE OF EXAMINATION
PLACE OF EXAMINATION
Stenographer and Typist
Washington, D.C.

NAME AND ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State and ZIP Code)
DATE OF TEST
April 25, 1977

Lillian B. Johnson
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875
This is not a notice of appointment. It is a record of your rating. It is important that you keep it.

PERIOD OF CONSIDERATION FROM ISSUE DATE

6 MONTHS
12 MONTHS
3 years
SEE REVERSE SIDE

You are ELIGIBLE for the following grade(s):

| CLERK-TYPIST     | CLERK-STENOGRAPHER | CLERK-DICTATING MACHINE TRANSCRIBER | CLERK-STENOGRAPHER (TRAINEE) |
| ---------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| GS-2  GS-3  GS-4 | GS-3  GS-4  GS-5   | GS-3  GS-4                          | GS-2                         |

AMOUNT OF VETEPAN PREFERENCE INCLUDED IN YOUR RATING: 5-PTS  10-PTS

YOUR NUMERICAL RATING IS
82.0
FOR CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION USE ONLY
TEST SCORES
GENERAL TEST (CLERICAL PLUS VERBAL)
I 102

You are INELIGIBLE for the following grade(s):

| CLERK-TYPIST     | CLERK-STENOGRAPHER | CLERK-DICTATING MACHINE TRANSCRIBER | CLERK-STENOGRAPHER (TRAINEE) |
| ---------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| GS-2  GS-3  GS-4 | GS-3  GS-4  GS-5   | GS-3  GS 4                          | GS-2                         |

TYPING
II 64/6
DICTATION
III 119
CLERICAL
IV 61
VERBAL
V 41

REASON FOR INELIGIBILITY:

You did not earn a passing score for the grade(s), checked ineligible, therefore no numerical rating is assigned for them.
You did not pass the typing performance test.
You did not pass the stenography performance test.
Your lowest acceptable salary is higher than that of the position in which you qualify.
Your qualifications statement does not show that you meet the minimum experience or education required for the grade(s) checked ineligible.
You failed to reply to official correspondence.

SEE OTHER SIDE FOR EXPLANATION OF SCORES

THE ITEMS CHECKED BELOW APPLY TO YOU:

You passed the general tests. If you recompete, you need retake only the typing part (and dictating part if you apply for stenographer) of the test. You must also present this notice and a Personal Qualifications Statement, Standard Form 171.
You failed the stenography test only. If you recompete, you need retake only that test. You must also present this notice and a Personal Qualifications Statement, S.F. 171.
You may not enter on duty until completion of required education is shown.
Your qualifications statement is attached in case you wish to apply for a different position.

DATE OF ISSUE
ISSUING OFFICE
April 25, 1977
United States Civil Service Commission
1900 E Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20415

BE SURE TO READ THE IMPORTANT MESSAGES ON THE BACK OF THIS FORM
Part 1

CSC FORM 4008-C
OCTOBER 1973
NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 45


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# Superior Court
## of the District of Columbia

## Certificate of Appreciation

LILLIAN B. JOHNSON, having sorved with distinction as a juror in the Superior

Court of the District of Columbia during the month of JANUARY 19 75,

is presented this rextificate of appreciction for significant community service by the Judges of the Court on behalf of the grateful citizens of the District of Columbia.

![Signature of Arnold h. Lune]
CHIEF JUDGE

![Signature of the Executive Officer]
EXECUTIVE OFFICER,
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA COURTS

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 46


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# 1977 Inaugural Committu

![Inauguration of the president and vice president seal]

February 7, 1977

Dear Ms. Johnson:

President Carter and Vice President Mondale have asked us to express their sincere appreciation to you for your most commendable efforts in support of the 1977 Inauguration.

The Inauguration of the President of the United States is a moment in history that serves as a vehicle to communicate to the world the commitment and spirit of the New Administration.

It is with this in mind that I forward this letter to you as a member of the Inaugural Security and Credential Committee. You displayed the highest degree of professionalism and dedication in many important tasks.

You were always willing and ready to work long hours, above and beyond the normal work day. You volunteered your services for almost anything asked of you.

Throughout the planning and implementation period, you were faced with an everchanging list of requirements. Your dedication to duty, understanding of the difficulties faced by the Inaugural Committee, and cooperative attitude are indicative of a true professional. Your over-all manner of performance was truly outstanding.

If we had the power today, each of you would receive a tangible medal of citation for the highest award of Volunteer Action. Possessing only words, we say again, thank you for all the service given so unselfishly.

Sincerely,

![Signature of Frank Wilson]
Frank Wilson, Director
Security & Credentials Committee

![Signature of Donald Brock]
Donald Brock, Deputy Chief
In Charge of Internal Security

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 47


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

![INAUGURATION OF PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT SEAL]

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON

served with distinction on behalf of the
Armed Forces of the United States
at the Inauguration of

Jimmy Carter

on the twentieth day of January,
one thousand, nine-hundred seventy-seven
in Washington, District of Columbia

![signature] Bardyl R. Tirana
Vicki Rogers
Robert G. Yerks

Co-Chairpersons
Major General USA

1977 Inaugural Committee
Chairman

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 48


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

February 3, 1977

To Lillian Johnson

I deeply appreciate your dedicated and untiring work on the 1977 inauguration. The inaugural program was a great success, open to all of our citizens. This would not have been possible without the unselfish help, cheerful spirit and long hours freely given by volunteers such as you.

You have helped to set an example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing our talents and energies with each other. Many thanks.

Sincerely,

![Signature of Jimmy Carter]

Miss Lillian Johnson
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

Your assistance with the 1977 Inauguration meant a great deal to me personally. More importantly, it was a great example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing our talents and energies with each other.

![Signature of Jimmy Carter]

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 50


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# 1977 Inaugural Committe

![Inauguration seal of the president and vice president]

February 7, 1977

Dear Ms. Johnson:

President Carter and Vice President Mondale have asked us to express their sincere appreciation to you for your most commendable efforts in support of the 1977 Inauguration.

The Inauguration of the President of the United States is a moment in history that serves as a vehicle to communicate to the world the commitment and spirit of the New Administration.

It is with this in mind that I forward this letter to you as a member of the Inaugural Security and Credential Committee. You displayed the highest degree of professionalism and dedication in many important tasks.

You were always willing and ready to work long hours, above and beyond the normal work day. You volunteered your services for almost anything asked of you.

Throughout the planning and implementation period, you were faced with an everchanging list of requirements. Your dedication to duty, understanding of the difficulties faced by the Inaugural Committee, and cooperative attitude are indicative of a true professional. Your overall manner of performance was truly outstanding.

If we had the power today, each of you would receive a tangible medal of citation for the highest award of Volunteer Action. Possessing only words, we say again, thank you for all the service given so unselfishly.

Sincerely,

![Signature of Frank Wilson]
Frank Wilson, Director
Security & Credentials Committee

![Signature of Donald Brock]
Donald Brock, Deputy Chief
In Charge of Internal Security

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

![INAUGURATION OF PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT SEAL photo]

LILLIAN BARBARA JOHNSON

served with distinction on behalf of the
Armed Forces of the United States
at the Inauguration of

Jimmy Carter

on the twentieth day of January,
one thousand, nine-hundred seventy-seven
in Washington, District of Columbia

Bardyl R. Tirana Vicki Rogers

Robert G. Yerks

Co-Chairpersons Major General USA

1977 Inaugural Committee Chairman

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 52


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

February 3, 1977

To Lillian Johnson

I deeply appreciate your dedicated and untiring work on the 1977 inauguration. The inaugural program was a great success, open to all of our citizens. This would not have been possible without the unselfish help, cheerful spirit and long hours freely given by volunteers such as you.

You have helped to set an example of what we Americans can accomplish by sharing our talents and energies with each other. Many thanks.

Sincerely,

![Signature of Jimmy Carter]

Miss Lillian Johnson
7516 Forest Road
Landover, Maryland 20875

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 53


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                       |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Lillian B. Johnson                         | January 12, 1978                                                                     |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                       |
| 577-56-7465                                | Appointment                                                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | Salary Adjustment                                                                    |
| Assassinations                             | Title Change                                                                         |
|                                            | Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                 |
|                                            | Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business) |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
|                |                      |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 455_of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level ______ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date December 29 19 77

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title-If Member; District and State)

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the. Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.__

ID

Benefits

Monthly Annuity $_________.00 as of

Payroll

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326
Docld:32239461 Page 54


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                                     |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Lillian B. Johnson                         | January 12, 1978                                                                                   |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                                     |
| 577-56-7465                                |                                                                                                    |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |                                                                                                    |
| Assassinations                             |                                                                                                    |
|                                            | ☐ Appointment                                                                                      |
|                                            | ☐ Salary Adjustment                                                                                |
|                                            | ☐ Title Change                                                                                     |
|                                            | ☑ Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                             |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business____________) |
|                                            | Specify Date                                                                                       |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level ________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date December 29 , 19 77

Louis Stokes

Chairman

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $__________.00 as of __________

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

ID__________

Benefits__________

Payroll__________

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326
DocId:32239461 Page 55


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)