# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10319
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN
Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326
DocId:32243285 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10319

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 08/15/77
PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BURAS, ROBERT C. JR.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
'NW 88326
Docld:32243285 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN. HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

October 16, 1978

Dear Bob:

As you probably know, because the Committee is winding down, the decision has been made to terminate L. J.'s services as of October 31.

I'm sure that you are wondering how you stand salary-wise with the Committee because of the duplicate salary payments from the New Orleans Police Department.

The following are my calculations of how you stand.

You were hired August 15, 1977 at an annual salary of $24,000.00 and taken off the payroll February 28, 1978. Your W-2 statement for 1977 gave a salary of $16,637.46 from the New Orleans Police Department. The monthly amount would be $1,386.46 ($16,637.46 ÷ 12). Prorating this amount would give $9,058.21 while on the payroll of the Committee ($1,386.46 per month for the period August 15, 1977 to February 28, 1978).

You have been due $613.54 per month from the Committee since March 1, 1978 (the difference between your Committee salary of $2,000.00 per month and $1,386.46). Dividing $613.54 into $9,058.21 (the overpayment referred to above) would carry you almost 15 months or until June 1, 1979.

According to the affidavit from your payroll supervisor, your base pay during the period you have been with the Committee is $1,273.00 per month. If we use this lower figure instead of the $1,386.46 which I got by dividing the amount on your W-2 by 12 and I went through the same calculations as above, the overpayment would carry you about 11½ months or until February 15, 1979.

Either way, the duplicate payment by the New Orleans Police Department for the period August 15, 1977 to February 28, 1978 is more than enough to carry you through December 31, 1978 without any further payments from the Committee.

Please give me a call if you have any questions or dispute any of my figures.

Sincerely yours,

![signature of Thomas Howarth]

THOMAS HOWARTH
Budget Officer

TH:ht

NW 88326
Docld:32243285 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# CITY OF NEW ORLEANS

# DEPARTMENT OF POLICE

![logo of the city of new orleans]

ERNEST DUTCH MORIAL
MAYOR

P. O. Box 51480
New Orleans, La. 70151

"to protect and to serve"

![logo of new orleans police]

CLARENCE B. GIARRUSSO
SUPERINTENDENT

June 6, 1978

During the period of August 15, 1977 through December 31,1977, Lieutenant Robert Buras, Jr. earned a base pay of $1273.00.

Respestfully Submitted

![signature of sgt. albert c. lawless]

SGT. ALBERT C. LAWLESS
Commander, Payroll Division

ACL/da

An Equal Opportunity Employer

NW 88326
Docld:32243285 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CITY OF NEW ORLEANS.
DIRECTOR OF FINANCE
ROOM 3W02 CITY HALL
NEW OREANS, LA. 70112

72-6000969W
-69-0720265001
St. 3607040001

Wage and Tax Statement 1977
Copy C For employee's records

Employee's social security number 1 Federal income tax withheld 2 Wages, tips, and other compensation

3 FICA employee tax withheld 4 Total FICA wages

Type or print Employee's name, address, and ZIP code below.

5 Was employee covered by a qualified pension plan, etc.? 6 7

8 State or local tax withheld 9 State or local wages 10 State or locality
170.29

11 City or local tax withheld 12 City or local wages 13 City or locality.

Form W-2 This information is being furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.

APPROVED I.R.S. Department of the Treasury-Internal Revenue service 13-2678063

#1-2,849.64 #2-16,637.86

Song about the weale copy / L


NW 88326
Docld:32243285 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Oct. 30, 1978

Dear Tom:

I recieved your letter of Oct. 16, 1978 and agree with your last figures which indicate my base pay as $1,273.00 per month. The W-2 form includes overtime and uniform al- lowances that are not subject to Committee Consideration. This still leaves me paid until Feb. 15, 1979. This is not accurate due to insufficient data given to you.

The following will explain my present position.

The City of New Orleans allows employees to accrue annual leave at the rate of 21 days per year (1 3/4 per month). This annual leave can be accumulated for a maximim of 90 days and be carried from one year to the next. In 1977 I ended the year with 102 days of which 12 days was dropped from the rolls due to committee employment. These are all working days, for each five totaled I recieve 2 days off, similar to a week end. In 1978 I will lose 21 days (working) from the rolls. This is 33 working days or 6 weeks and 3 days (33\div5= 6 X 7 + 3 =45).

The 33 days from the City amounts to $1,937.66 at $7.34 per hour. This amount does not take into account the number of weeks nor the 14 days annual leave that the committee would allow. The total consecutive days would be 45 + 14 = 59. This would be one day short of two months at $2,000.00 per month from the Committee. You can see that this could get into an accountant problem.

I am suggesting that the Committee not pay me anything further in salary but that I be given the above stated time off. I would like to be off from Nov. 15 thru Dec 31. 1978. I would still be avialable to get needed information to help write the report (if the Committee continues my phone service)

I am not an accountant and would rather not get into the dollars and cents involved. The time off would be a practical solution in my opinion.

I will talk with you and Cliff further about this matter.

Sincerely In Christ

![signature]
Robert Buras
Staff Investigator

NW 88326
Docld:32243285 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------- |
| Robert P. Buras, Jr.                       | 2/28/78        |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action |
| 438-48-7116                                |                |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |                |
| Assassinations                             |                |

Appointment
Salary Adjustment
Title Change
Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business__________)

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 879 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date March 7, 1978

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN

(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

ID
Benefits
Payroll

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326
Docld:32243285 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Robert P. Buras, Jr.              | 8/15/77                                              |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 438 48 7116                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations Committee          | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment; complete the following information.)

| Position Title     | Gross Annual Salary |
| ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Staff Investigator | $24.000.00          |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 16,1977 19

(Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration...

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243285 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

MEMORANDUM

TO:
Professor G. Robert Blakey

FROM: Cliff Fenton

DATE: August 15, 1977

RE: Recommendation for employment - Robert P. Buras, Jr.

It is recommended that Robert P. Buras, Jr. be hired for appointment to the position of Senior Investigator at a salary of $24,000 per annum effective this date. Even though his homicide investigatory experience is limited, his experiences in law enforcement would be beneficial to our investigation.

Mr. Buras, who is a Lieutenant, has been with the New Orleans Police Department for eighteen (18) years. He appeared to be a loyal and committed person and showed a strong desire to join the JFK Task Force. He is presently in New Orleans, Louisiana and will be stationed thereat.

APPROVED:

Kenneth D. Klein
Assistant Deputy Chief Counsel

NW 88326
DocId:32243285 Page 9


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)