JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10096-10399
RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES.
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 009532

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: TAYLOR, GARY.
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 06/11/1978
PAGES: 9
SUBJECTS: DE BAHRENSCHILDT, GEORGE.
TAYLOR, GARY.
OSWALD, MORING; ASSOCIATES AND RELATIVES.
OSWALD, LEE; POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD; ASSOCIATES &
RELATIVES.
DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY.
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/21/1993
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Box 175. Outside contact report.

Date: 10/14/20

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

v9.1
NW 88326 Docld:32256841 Page 1

1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

KENNEDY 009532

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1. Identifying Information:
   Name GARY EDWARD Taylor
   Date 6-11-78
   Address 3716-COLE Ave
   Place 3:00 PM
   City/State Dallas, Texas 75204
   Telephone
   Date of Birth 12-24-39
   M or S MARRIED
   Social Security 456-58-3508
   Spouse Cynthia Marie Taylor
   Children

2. Physical Description:
   Height 6 feet
   Color Eyes Gray Hair Brown
   Weight
   Special Characteristics
   Ethnic Group White Male

3. Personal History:

a. Present Employment: (Cab Driver) Yellow Cab. Co.
Address Dallas, Texas
Telephone

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests 2-Arrest for loitering 1958 - Dismissed

2. Convictions 1- for loitering 1962 - Fined.

4. Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name Mother - Lila Marie Taylor (nee Espin)
Address 4235- North Crest Rd.
Dallas, Texas

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks: Bell-Boy Pager - Call-814-742-2872
Pager #859

Investigator Clarice Hay
Date 6-11-78

NW 88326 DocId:32256841 Page 2 Form #4-B


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

KENNEDY

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE 6-11-78 TIME 3°°PN

I. Identifying Information:

Name _Gary Edward Taylor_ Telephone 214-556-8151

Address 3716-Cole Ave #102- Dallas, Texas 75204.

Type of Contact: Telephone

✓ Person

II. Summary of Contact:

Purpose was to review statement and to interview the witness


III. Recommended Follow-up (if any):

![signature of Clarence Dally]

NW 88326. DocId: 32256841t Page: 3 FORM 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name Gary Edward Taylor

Address 3716 Cole Avenue, #102,
Dallas, Texas 75204

Date June 11, 1978 Time 3:00 p.m

Place Holiday Inn, Regal Row,
Dallas, Texas

Interview: The purpose of the interview of Mr. Taylor was to review his Statement and to interview the witness. This interview took place on Sunday, June 11, 1978, at 3:00 p.m. at the Holiday Inn, 1575 Regal Row, Dallas, Texas. Mr. Gary Edward Taylor, date of birth 12-24-39, who is the employed as a taxi cab driver for the Yellow Cab Company in Dallas, Texas. Telephone number at work is 426-2626. Mr. Taylor stated that he met Lee Harvey Oswald and Marina Oswald in early September of 1962 in Fort Worth, Texas. In describing LHO, Mr. Taylor stated that he was not a very nice person to know. He was never light-hearted nor did he ever make jokes. He was not a very sociable person. Mr. Taylor stated that during the time that he knew LHO, he had talked with him only on a very general basis about his stay in Russia. Taylor stated that Oswald had never discussed his ever being debriefed by the KGB while he was in the Soviet Union. Mr. Taylor said that he had never heard LHO mention that he had attempted to commit suicide while in Russia nor had he ever noticed any scars as a result of that attempt. Mr. Taylor stated that LHO would talk about Russia and his stay

Interviewer Signature

Typed Signature Clarence J. Day

Date transcribed 6-23-78

By: br Form #4-A


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Gary Edward Taylor Interview
Page 2.

in the Soviet Union only in a general way and would never be specific. He talked about the society as a whole but never about his position in it. Mr. Taylor had the impression that Oswald did not like living in the Soviet Union. He stated that LHO did mention that he had worked in a radio factory while in Minsk and stated that he made metal chassis. He described his job as being that of a sheet metal worker. However, Taylor stated that Oswald did not go into any details concerning his work. Mr. Taylor described Oswald at this point in the interview as being a very superficial person. He described him as "like a kid coming to school without doing his homework." Mr. Taylor further recalls that he (Mr. Taylor) thought it odd that LHO did not know how to drive a car. Taylor stated that he had been asked by George De Mohrenschildt and a friend of the De Mohrenschildts by the name of George Bouhe to teach LHO how to drive. Taylor stated however that he has no knowledge of Oswald ever learning to drive a car.

Mr. Taylor stated that LHO talked only in general terms about where he lived in Russia. He did mention living in Minsk. Taylor but gave little insight into his living conditions. stated that he got a feeling that Oswald lived under average conditions. He stated that Oswald had mentioned that he made the minimal wages, which were about forty-five rubles a month. He went on to state that he had spoken of having only one pair of shoes and one coat. Taylor recalled that LHO had never discussed with him what his social life was like while he was in


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# Gary Edward Taylor Interview
Page 3.

Russia and he added that LHO was "a person of few social graces" and that he appeared to be a person who had no time for people in general. He described him as being untypical and as being a person who was self-motivated to personal efforts or personal goals.

Mr. Taylor reflected that he could not understand the interest that George De Mohrenschildt showed towards LHO during this period. He described De Mohrenschildt's actions as giving Oswald money, helping him by giving him clothing and then by virtually forcing Oswald on his friends, that is, the friends of De Mohrenschildt. He also stated that De Mohren- schildt spent a great deal of time with LHO. Mr. Taylor said that was difficult to understand because George De Mohrenschildt had children and a family of his own and he had never done any of the things that he had done for LHO for his own family. He stated further that this interest was out of character for George De Mohrenschildt, considering that 1HO was a "nobody."

Mr. Taylor stated that LHO had never mentioned having any contact with the KGB. He stated that Oswald could not understand why the Russian Government was not interested in him and he believed that this hurt LHO. Taylor stated that sometime about six months before the assassination, he had visited Marina at their apartment on Neeley Street in Oakcliff. but Lee was not home at the time. While he was at the apart- ment, Marina had shown him a rifle belonging to LHO which she got from behind the door. Taylor could not describe the weapon


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# Gary Edward Taylor Interview
Page 4.

except to say that it was a rifle. He stated that he believed Marina was afraid of LHO and during this visit she sensed that she anxious for him to leave. He recalled that he had seen signs of Marina being battered by LHO. He had observed on occasions bruises and abrasions which he believed were caused by LHO. Taylor stated that 1HO never discussed why the Soviet Government allowed him to remain in Russia or why they let him return to this country.

This witness had no knowledge of any friends or associates of LHỌ other than those persons mentioned in the Warren Commission Report. He stated that he never discussed the U-2 program with LHỌ. Taylor advised that he had no knowledge that LHO was an extensive reader. He recalled that he did subscribe to and receive one Russian periodical. He did not remember the name. He later stated that he recalled that Oswald did mention that he had read Lenin, Karl Marx, and Adolph Hitler.

Mr. Taylor stated that he knew of only one interest that LHO had, and that interest was writing. He said that LHO spent most of his spare time writing. He further recalls that Oswald had given him a manuscript which he, LHO, had written. Taylor said that he read a very small part of the writings and concluded that it was very poorly done and so he never finished reading it.

Taylor continued to recall and stated while giving his Warren Commission testimony, he was shown a manuscript by Mr.

NW 88326 Docld:32256841 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# Gary Edward Taylor Interview
Page 5.

Jack Genner, Counsel for the Warren Commission, and that he did not reconize it as the one given him by LHO. He further stated that about a year ago he was interviewed by Edward Epstein, the author, and at that time he was shown a manuscript by Mr. Epstein which he (Taylor) recongized as the one given him by LHO. Mr. Taylor said he could think of nothing LHO did or said that led him to believe that Oswald had a motive for killing President Kennedy. He stated that LHO to him was just an insignificant person.

Mr. Taylor, when questioned about his employment in 1959 or 1960, stated that he had worked at a number of jobs during that time. He was a student in college and he recalled that one place he worked was the stockroom in J. C. Penny's Store in Dallas, Texas. He could not name his supervisor. Mr. Taylor stated that he had worked for R.C.A. Service Company at Redstone Arsonal, in Alabama, as a sound engineer and that he had trouble getting a security check clearance; however, he had later gotten the clearance. When asked if he knew Donald Waltrum, Jack Moore, and R. K. Johnson, or Sigmund Andrews, Mr. Taylor said that he knew them all except Donald Waltrum.

Taylor said that he had lived two doors down from Jack Moore when he lived at 3245 North Crest, in Dallas, Texas. Moore at that time was living at 4241 North Crest. He admitted knowing Moore since 1951. He stated that Moore's children and

NW 88326 Docld:32256841 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# Gary Edward Taylor Interview
Page 6.

his children are friends. He advised that Moore is now re- tired from a family business. The family business was selling surgical supplies. The business carries the family name and is still in Dallas, Texas. Taylor stated that his son and Moore's grand-daughter are now dating each other.

R. K. Johnson was a close personal friend of Taylor. He was a free-lance photographer who had taught him photo- graphy. He had worked for Johnson as a free-lance photography assistant at 3507 Travis Street in Dallas, Texas. He stated that he met Johnson in 1957 when he became interested in motion pictures. Johnson was in that profession at the time. He stated that Ralph Johnson died Easter Sunday, 1967.

Mr. Taylor said that he met Sigmund Andrews in 1957 when he was involved in motion pictures and he stated that in 1960 Andrews came to Dallas and they worked together doing industrial and motion picture advertising for Keitz Herdon Company in Dallas. His former wife, that is, Andrew's former wife's name is Norma, and she is now married to William Holiman who is the assistant agent in charge of the Dallas Field Office for the F.B.I. He stated that he has not seen or had contact with Andrews in quite some time, for over a year, but that he has seen Norma Holiman recently. Mr. Taylor stated that he had worked for Sellers Company or Sellers T.V. Studio at 2102 Johnson Street in Dallas, Texas. in 1963 and 1966. He stated that he worked as a sound engineer and that there were only


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Gary Edward Taylor Interview
Page 7.

three people in the company, a man by the name of Ken Brown, and J. E. Sellers and himself. The company was involved in making television/motion picture advertising.

Taylor stated that he knew of no employee of the Sellers Company who was acquainted with, associated with, or even knew LHO. Near the end of this interview, Mr. Taylor asked me if the Committee had George De Mohrenschildt's papers from his estate. I made no comment and Mr. Taylor stated that, asked me, in other words, if I knew that there was a confession among George De Mohrenschildt's papers. I still made no comment.

Mr. Taylor then stated that he had been told by Alexandra De Mohrenschildt, his former wife, that there was a confession among George De Mohrenschildt's papers, and he indicated that that fact was the reason why John, Jane and Alexandra De Mohren- schildt were fighting so hard in the courts to obtain possession of George De Mohrenschildt's estate, papers and all. Mr. Taylor was very cooperative during this interview. He suggested very strongly that some member of this Committee contact and interview his former wife, Alexander De Mohrenschildt. He stated that if there was any way that he could help in the investigation, the Committee is free to contact him at any time.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)