# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Victor Paneque.

1 p.kg. loose documents

1 p.kg. DCD documents

1 Volume CI/OA documents

1 Volume - DDO documents

DDO Volume

24 October 1960.

Personality File Request

Victor Paneque - 201-286 382

Reportedly an agent of DIER

Undated document giving Paneque's background political activity. All 1960 information.

1. On arrival in U.S., stayed with Orlando Bosch, suspected Castro agent.

2. Associated with leader of MRR "Camilo Cienfuegos", Carlos Rodriguez Castro, suspected Castro plant in U.S.

3. Reportedly spent 2 hrs. with Raul Castro before defecting.

4. Major Sanjenis, former Chief G-2, says Paneque of GOC agent.

5. Organization Autentica reporting to State Dept that Paneque is a Castro plant.

6. [00-A 3168667] reports Paneque one of two DIER plants at Uni. of Havana and students planning to assassinate him.

7. Cuban businessman says Paneque is G-2 plant.

8. CIA reported to FBI that Subject is...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Palmer
8/2/28
Paneque

April 29, 1959 Classified message to Director from Havana says Raul Castro has began a major purge of Cuban Armed Forces. Among those to be eliminated are Victor Paneque, aka "Diego".

18 Oct. 1960
Conversation with Major Victor M. Paneque (Commadante Diego, 6 October at 900).

When Paneque arrived in Miami, he got together with Alianza de Liberacion through Dr. Luis Conte Aguero. He could not get immediate help from this group, so resigned. Also said he had tried to get help from U.S. govt. but unsuccessful.
Paneque is convinced that the only thing needed to overthrow Castro is arms & supplies. Has a plane which he intends to fly into Cuba with Cargo of arms.
Author of memo recommends that CIA offer assistance to Paneque independent of all other organizations as he seems to be capable of becoming an important factor in the future.

0003443

Nov. 2, 1960 Cable to Director from Mash, Paneque & 8 men leaving for Cuba night of 1 Nov on 40-foot yacht, Trudy Lou, Craft purchased by Orlando Bosch.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

DIER - Departamento Investigativo
Del Ejercito Revolucionario.

SECRET

Palmer
8/2/78
Paneque

⑥ 14 Dee. 1960.
Cable to Dereitor from Havaria. IN 16758
Paneque reportedly under arrest at Cabana
Prison & his wife at Women'sprison, on chargex
of aiding Escambray fighters.

① Jan 13, 1961
Cable to Bell from Juatemala City. IN 1688
Alexander Rourke gives information that Trauk
Fiorini & Orlando Bosch, of miami represent Paneque in Cuba.
J'rorini & Bosch recruiting & equiping force for
assault on Cuba 18 Jan. Receiving financial aid
from anti Communist International Association
of nyc.

⑧ 14 March 1962
Dispatch to Chief, Task Force W. from COS/JMWAVE.
Paneque organized a Hunger Strike by Cuban
Eules & held a rally 13 March 1962. Purpose was
to show JFK that Cubans are willing to die
in exile if their right to defend Cuba in from
Communism is negated. Motto of. Strike is
"Hunger or War!"

0003444

⑦ PRQ part 1 - July 4, 1964.
Aliases: Diego Rene Ricards (Clandestine Activity)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

Palmer
8/1/78
Paneque

Request for Information & Review 5 nov. 1964
[POA granted 13 Nov 1964]

8 Oct 1964
Report of Covert Assessment
from Assessment & Evaluation Staff, Medical Staff.
Paneque one of 6 members of the "rodop trainer (radio operators &) given psychological assessments in Aug-1964. Paneque is oldest, (DOB 18 Sept 1920) and least intelligent, most experienced of the group. Likely he would try to dominate the group because of his past experience. His shortcomings seem to outweigh his assets.

17 Nov 1964 Classified Message 162258Z
[Paneque assigned AMRUG-5]

19 Dec. 1964
Memorandum of Oral Commitment
Paneque engaged under oral contract on 1 Dec 1964. To receive $275.28 per month following completion of satisfactory service. Will receive raise of $50 per month on completion of training & $50 raise upon infiltration. (Possibly an infiltration of Oriente Province) see item 13

0003445


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Palmer
8/1/78

SECRET

(12) 1 Oct 1965

Dispatch from COS/JMWAVE

Penequa terminated as of 31 Oct 1965. Agent Service record. recommends him for re-use, on basis of his knowledge of interal contacts in Northern Oriente.

(13) 15 Sept 1977 to Managua #095686

Ponequa participated in Cuban exile activities in New York area in 1962 and later registered in ISR & Dept of Army in August 1962 (Dropped without prejudice 18 Nov 1963.)

One 1964 Ponequa was member of MDC infiltration team. Recruited by Miami station as radio operator/infiltree and favorably swirled on 5 August 1964. POA granted 13 Nov 1964. Paid $275 monthly beginning 1 Sep 1964. Trained by Cuban agente in Miami but never used operationally. Amicably terminated 1 Oct 1965 & recommended for re-use. Reported in 1969 as conducting clandestine trips made Cuba on behalf of Junta Militar de Cuba.

Third agency deletion. nine sealed envelope.

8-FBI 1 Dept of Army

0003446


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Palmer 8/2/78

SECRET

Volume CI/09 - no notes necessary.

Victor Manuel Paneque Batista - C-286 382

Deletions - 1 Sealed envelope.

FBI report 3 Nov 1960 and Office of Security polygraph Interview.

Victor Paneque

DCD Documents - no notes

Loose Documents - Victor Paneque

17 Feb 1972.

Subject: Identification of PCC, DSE, USC members, etc.

page 3 – Item 9: Information acquired through interrogation of CC-4993, Jacinto BAEZ Galiano, a Cuban refugee a former resident Rogla, Havana Province, who left Cuba 22 Nov 1971. Subsource

Worked for Superphosphates Enterprise from 1950-1968.

Victor Manuel Panesque employed until 1968 as laboratory Chief of Superphosphates, is a member of the PCC, militia, & Defense Committee (CDR). He is an agronomist & former director of Schooling Agronomy, Havana University. He is described as Caucasian, 5'2" tall, weight about 165 lbs, born 1927-32, black hair, dark-colored eyes.

0003447

Victor Paneque Batista is 5'6", brown hair, blue eyes, born 1920.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Halmar
8/3/78

Morales - Respons. If 24 July 1978 request.
20 Jan. 1961 dispatch & Chief/WH from
Chief, JMWAVE

Subj: operational [J MATE/AMOT]
Ref: Bell -0447.

When info of referenced cable passed to
[AMOT/2] he stated he had received some
info from Felipe Rodriguez de la Torre. According
$(A/2)$ he already alerted [AMIRON] $(A-z)$ said
that subject has as of 13 Jan 1961, not attempted
to enlist in [AMIRON] Both have WAVE and
[AMOT] are attempting to locate subject..


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)