# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10341
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

> Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326
DocId:32243307 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page: 1

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10341
RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 06/01/77
PAGES : 10
SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
EMANUEL, CARYL M.
DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN. HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

## Select Committee on Assassinations

## U.S. House of Representatives

3369 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

January 30, 1079

District Unemployment Compensation Board
6th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue
Washington, D. C. 20001

Gentlemen:

The Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House of Representatives, officially terminated at noontime, Wednesday, January 3, 1979.

In connection therewith, the below listed staff member will terminate her services with the U. S. House of Representatives at the close of business on January 31, 1979.

It is hoped that by furnishing the following information, the processing of her application for unemployment benefits will be facilitated.

Caryl M. Emanuel SS No. 108-30-7723

Salary:

6/1/77 - 7/31/77 $10,850.00
8/1/77 - 2/28/78 14,000.00
3/1/78 - 1/31/79 16,000.00

Sincerely,

![signature of Thomas Howarth]

Thomas Howarth
Deputy Staff Director
and Budget Officer

TH:ht

NW 88326
DocId:32243307 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Caryl M. Emanuel                           | March 1, 1978                                                                                                                                         |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                                                                                        |
| 108-30-7723                                | ☐ Appointment <br>☒Salary Adjustment <br>☐ Title Change                                                                                               |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date) <br>☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business_ __) |
| Assassinations                             | Specify Date                                                                                                                                          |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
| Secretary      | $16,000              |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☒ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.256 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level__________ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date March 14,_________, 19_78

______________________________________________________
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title - If Member, District and State)

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member):

(Type or print name and title of above official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

__________________________________________________________
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

| Office of Finance use only:                      |                     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------- |
| Office Code __________                           | ID __________       |
| Monthly Annuity $___________.00 as of __________ | Benefits __________ |
|                                                  | Payroll __________  |

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243307 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)
Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:
I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Caryl M. Emanuel                  | 8/1/77                                               |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 108 30 7723                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Secretary      | $14,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5. U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 1 1977

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243307 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last): | Effective Date                                       |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Caryl M. Emanuel                   | 6/1/77                                               |
| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action                                       |
| 108 30 7723                        | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee      |                                                      |
| Assassinations                     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
|                                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Secretary      | $10,850             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff-Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 31.10(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date June 1 19 77

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

![FO 6/2]

NW 88326
DocId:32243307 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

☑ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

☐ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress. (Please specify.)

![signature of employee]

Signature of Employee

6/2/77
Date

NW 88326
DocId:32243307 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth and Becky Martin

FROM: Steve Fallis

DATE: May 18, 1977

RE: Employment of Caryl M. Emanuel

Ms. Caryl M. Emanuel has been hired as a secretary, to begin work on June 1, 1977. Her annual salary will be $14,000 and she is to be assigned to the Legal Unit.
Her resume is attached to Becky Martin's copy of this memorandum for the personnel files.

# 14,000 x 75% = 10,500

June & July

jg

NW 88326
DocId:32243307 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth and Becky Martin

FROM: Steve Fallis

DATE: May 18, 1977

RE: Employment of Caryl M. Emanuel

Ms. Caryl M. Emanuel has been hired as a secretary, to begin work on June 1, 1977. Her annual salary will be $14,000 and she is to be assigned to the Legal Unit.

Her resume is attached to Becky Martin's copy of this memorandum for the personnel files.

jg


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

MEMORANDUM

TO: Jim Wolf

FROM: Tom Lambeth

I discussed the employment of Caryl M. Emanuel with the chairman this morning, and he gave his approval to her being hired immediately.

eb
NW 88326
DocId:32243307 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

MEMORANDUM

TO: Chairman Louis Stokes

FROM: Tom Lambeth, Acting Director

DATE: May 16, 1977

RE: Employment of Caryl M. Emanuel

Miss Emanuel has been interviewed by Jim Wolf and Tiny Hutton. She has experience as a legal secretary and Jim tells me that such experience is essential to his work. She has the possibility of employment at several other places and it is very important to let her know as soon as possible if we are hiring her. Her proposed salary is $14,000 which is the amount provided in the budget for this position.

eb

NW 88326
DocId:32243307 Page 11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Emanuel

June
July #/20 working days
$ 1.166.67
641.67

$ 1,808.34

Two month average
$ 904.17

Annualized
$ 10.850.00

June - July - annual
$ 10.850.0۰
Monthly

August
# 14.000.00


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)