# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10324
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 8

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
Docld:32243290 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 88326 Date: 2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10324

RECORDS SERIES :

STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 12/29/77

PAGES : 8

SUBJECTS :

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

COLLINS, WENDY S.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date:08/20/93

Page:1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN. HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3369 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

December 5, 1978

The Honorable Frank Thompson, Jr.
Chairman
Committee on House Administration
U. S. House of Representatives
Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

Effective December 1, 1978, the official duty station of Ms. Wendy Collins has been changed from Washington, D. C. to Pittsford, Vermont.

This change will remain in effect through the balance of the 95th Congress.

Sincerely,

![signature]

LOUIS STOKES
Chairman

LS:th

NW 88326
DocId:32243290 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date    |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| Wendy S. Collins                  | December 20, 1978 |

| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                               |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 024-44-5143                                | ☐ Appointment                                                                                |
|                                            | ☐ Salary Adjustment                                                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ☐ Title Change                                                                               |
| Assassinations                             | ☑ Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                       |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business _ _  ) |
|                                            | Specify Date                                                                                 |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
|                |                      |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. of Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number______ If applicable, Level________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

December 11, 1978

Date_______________________________, 19________

(Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman

(Type or print name and title of above official)
(Title -If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:________________________________________________________
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code.______ ID ______

Benefits ______

Monthly Annuity $______ .00 as of Payroll ______ (Revised: August 1 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243290 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                         |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Wendy S. Collins                           | December 29, 1977                                                                      |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                         |
| 024-44-5153                                | ☑Appointment                                                                           |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ☐ Salary Adjustment                                                                    |
| Assassinations                             | ☐ Title Change                                                                         |
|                                            | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                 |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business) |
|                                            | Specify Date: _________                                                                |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title    | Gross Annual Salary* |
| ----------------- | -------------------- |
| Research Attorney | $18,000              |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 365 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________If applicable, Level__________ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date December 29, 1977

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Signature of Authorizing Official)

Louis Stokes

(Type or print name and title of above official) (Type or print name of Authorizing Official) (Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code _________
ID _________
Monthly Annuity $__________.00 as of _________
Benefits _________
Payroll _________
(Revised: August 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32243290 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# HEALTH BENEFITS REGISTRATION FORM
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
(Read instructions on back of page 3.)

TO EMPLOYING OFFICE: SHOW OLD CARRIER'S CONTROL NUMBER ONLY IF ELECTION IS TO CANCEL
ENROLLMENT OR TO CHANGE OPTIONS OR TYPE OF ENROLLMENT IN THE SAME PLAN.

New Carrier's Control No.
22933820

Old Carrier's Control No.

PART A
ALL WHO REGIS-
TER MUST FILL
IN THIS PART.

1. NAME
   (LAST)
   Collins

4. YOUR MAILING ADDRESS
   (NUMBER AND STREET)
   1630 Hobart St., N.W.

(CITY)
WASHINgton D.C.

(FIRST)
Wen Diy

(MIDDLE INITIAL)
S

(STATE)

(ZIP CODE)
20009

2. DATE OF BIRTH
   (Use numbers)

MONTH DAY YEAR
03 22 53

5. SOCIAL SECURITY
   ACCOUNT NUMBER
   024-44-5168

3. ARE YOU NOW
   MARRIED?
   Yes
   No

6. SEX
   MALE
   FEMALE

IMPORTANT

IT IS ILLEGAL FOR AN EMPLOYEE OR A MEMBER OF HIS FAMILY TO BE COVERED UNDER MORE THAN ONE ENROLLMENT. IF YOU ARE ALREADY COVERED THROUGH
THE FAMILY ENROLLMENT OF ANOTHER FEDERAL OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA EMPLOYEE OR ANNUITANT YOU MUST REGISTER NOT TO ENROLL OR THE OTHER
ENROLLMENT MUST BE CANCELED OR CHANGED TO SELF ONLY. SIMILARLY, IF A FAMILY MEMBER LISTED BY YOU IN PART B IS COVERED THROUGH HIS (OR HER) OWN
ENROLLMENT, YOU CANNOT ELECT A FAMILY ENROLLMENT UNLESS THE FAMILY MEMBER CANCELS HIS (OR HER) ENROLLMENT. ALSO SEE BACK OF PAGES 2 AND 3.

PART B
FILL IN THIS
PART IF YOU
WISH TO ENROLL
OR CHANGE
YOUR ENROLL-
MENT IN A
HEALTH. BENE-
FITS PLAN.

If enrollment is
for Self Only,
answer item 1.
If enrollment.is.
for Self and
Family, also an
swer item 2.

IF YOU ARE
CHANGING YOUR
ENROLLMENT
ALSO FILL IN
PART D.

1. I elect to enroll in a health benefits plan as shown below. I authorize deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to cover my
   share of the cost of the enrollment. (Copy the information requested below from back page of brochure of the plan you select.)

NAME OF PLAN
Blue Cross/Blue Shield Service
Benefit PIAN

OPTION (HIGH OR LOW)
HIGH

ENROLLMENT CODE NUMBER.
1101

2. In space below list all eligible family members without exception: List your wife or husband first, then your unmarried children under age
   22, including (a) legally adopted children and (b) stepchildren, foster children, and illegitimate children who live with you in a regular
   parent-child relationship. Include also any unmarried child over 22 who became disabled before age 22 and who, because of the disability,
   is incapable of self-support. (Attach a doctor's certificate for a disabled child age 22 or over, if one is not already on file.) DO NOT LIST
   PARENTS OR OTHERS WHO ARE NOT ELIGIBLE FAMILY MEMBERS. THEY WILL NOT RECEIVE BENEFITS, EVEN IF THEY
   ARE DEPENDENT ON YOU AND ARE LISTED.

| NAMES OF FAMILY MEMBERS | DATE OF BIRTH' (Month, Day, Year) |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| Wife or Husband         | 1                                 |
|                         | 2                                 |
|                         | 3                                 |
|                         | 4                                 |
|                         | 5                                 |
|                         | 6                                 |
|                         | 7                                 |
|                         | 8                                 |
|                         | 9                                 |
|                         | 10                                |

PART.C
FILL IN THIS
PART IF YOU
WISH NOT TO
ENROLL OR IF
YOU WISH TO
CANCEL YOUR
ENROLLMENT.

PLACE AN "X" IN ITEM 1 OR 2 WHICHEVER APPLIES:
1. I ELECT NOT TO ENROLLIN A PLAN UNDER THE FEDERAL
   EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM:

2. I ELECT TO CANCEL MY PRESENT ENROLLMENT UNDER THE
   CODE NUMBER SHOWN BELOW

Present Enrollment Code Number.

If you elect to cancel
be sure to read
"Cancellation of Enroll-
ment" on back of page 3.

PART D
FILL IN THIS
PART, AS WELL
AS PART B, ΤΟ
CHANGE YOUR
REGISTRATION.

ANSWER.ITEMS 1,2, AND 3 TO SHOW ENROLLMENT CODE BEING CHANGED AND ELIGIBILITY FOR CHANGE.
1. ENROLLMENT CODE NUMBER
   OF PRESENT-PLAN-

2. NUMBER OF EVENT WHICH PERMITS CHANGE:
   (See table on back of page 2 for proper number.).

3. DATE OF EVENT WHICH PERMITS CHANGE.

MONTH DAY YEAR

PART E
ALL WHO REGIS-
TER MUST FILL
IN THIS PART...

Wen Dy. S collins

(YOUR SIGNATURE DO NOT PRINT)

Aug 5, 1978
(DATE)

WARNING.-Any intentional false statement
in this application or wilful misrepresentation
relative thereto is a violation of the law
punishable by a fine of not more than $10,000
or imprisonment of not more than 5 years,
or both. (18 U.S.C. 1001.)

PART F
TO BE
COMPLETED
BY AGENCY

1. NAME AND ADDRESS (INCLUDING ZIP CODE) OF EMPLOYING OFFICE
   U.S. House of Representatives
   Office of Finance, Washington, D.C. 20515

2. DATE RECEIVED IN
   EMPLOYING OFFICE

3. EFFECTIVE DATE OF
   ELECTION

4. PAYROLL OFFICE NO.
   00004832

5. SF 2811 REPORT NO.

REMARKS
FOR USE ONLY
BY AGENCY.

(SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED AGENCY OFFICIAL)

Page 1 - To Payroll Office
NW 88326-
DocId:32243290 Page 6
Standard Form No. 2809
U.S. Civil Service Commission,
FPM Supplement 890-1
November 1972


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# HEALTH BENEFITS REGISTRATION FORM
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
(Read instructions on back of page 3.)

If typewriter is not available, bear down with ball-point pen to make legible copies.

TO EMPLOYING OFFICE: SHOW OLD CARRIER'S CONTROL NUMBER ONLY IF ELECTION IS TO CANCEL ENROLLMENT OR TO CHANGE OPTIONS OR TYPE OF ENROLLMENT IN THE SAME PLAN.

## PART A

1. NAME

Collins

(LAST)

Wendy

(FIRST)

S

(MIDDLE INITIAL)

2. DATE OF BIRTH (Use numbers)

MONTH DAY YEAR

03 22 53

New Carrier's Control No.

22933820

Old Carrier's Control No

3. ARE YOU NOW MARRIED?

Yes

No

ALL WHO REGISTER MUST FILL IN THIS PART.

4. YOUR MAILING ADDRESS (NUMBER AND STREET)

1630 Hobart St., N.W.

5. SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER

024-44-5163

6. SEX

MALE

FEMALE

(CITY)

(STATE)

(ZIP CODE).

WASHiNgton D.C. 20009

IMPORTANT

IT IS ILLEGAL FOR AN EMPLOYEE OR A MEMBER OF HIS FAMILY TO BE COVERED UNDER MORE THAN ONE ENROLLMENT. IF YOU ARE ALREADY COVERED THROUGH THE FAMILY ENROLLMENT OF ANOTHER FEDERAL OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA EMPLOYEE OR ANNUITANT YOU MUST REGISTER NOT TO ENROLL OR THE OTHER ENROLLMENT MUST BE CANCELED OR CHANGED TO SELF ONLY. SIMILARLY, IF A FAMILY MEMBER LISTED BY YOU IN PART B IS COVERED THROUGH HIS (OR HER) OWN ENROLLMENT, YOU CANNOT ELECT A FAMILY ENROLLMENT UNLESS THE FAMILY MEMBER CANCELS HIS (OR HER) ENROLLMENT. ALSO SEE BACK OF PAGES.2 AND.3.

## PART B
FILL IN THIS PART IF YOU WISH TO ENROLL OR CHANGE YOUR ENROLLMENT IN A HEALTH BENEFITS PLAN.

1. I elect to enroll in a health benefits plan as shown below. I authorize deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to cover-my share of the cost of the enrollment. (Copy the information requested below from back page of brochure of the plan you select.)

NAME OF PLAN

Blue (Ross/Blue Shield Service Benefit PIAN

OPTION (HIGH OR LOW)

HIGH

ENROLLMENT CODE NUMBER

10

If enrollment is for Self Only, answer item 1: If enrollment is for. Self and Family, also an swer item 2.

2. In space below list all eligible family members without exception: List your wife or husband first, then your unmarried children under age 22, including (a) legally adopted children and (b) stepchildren, foster children, and illegitimate children who live with you in a regular parent-child relationship.. Include also any unmarried child over 22 who became disabled before age 22 and who, because of the disability, is incapable of self-support. (Attach a doctor's certificate for a disabled child age 22 or over, if one is not already on file.) DO NOT LIST PARENTS OR OTHERS WHO ARE NOT ELIGIBLE FAMILY MEMBERS. THEY WILL NOT RECEIVE BENEFITS, EVEN IF THEY ARE DEPENDENT ON YOU AND ARE LISTED.

Wife or Husband

NAMES OF FAMILY MEMBERS

DATE OF BIRTH (Month, Day: Year)

NAMES OF FAMILY MEMBERS

DATE OF BIRTH (Month, Day, Yearl

## PART C
FILL IN THIS PART IF YOU WISH NOT TO ENROLL OR IF YOU WISH TO CANCEL YOUR ENROLLMENT

PLACE AN "X" IN ITEM 1 ÖR.2 WHICHEVER APPLIES.

1. I ELECT NOT TO ENROLL IN A PLAN UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM

2. I ELECT TO CANCEL MY PRESENT ENROLLMENT UNDER THE CODE NUMBER SHOWN BELOW:

Present Enrollment Code Number

If you elect to cancel be sure to read "Cancellation of Enroll- ment" on back of page 3.

## PART D
FILL IN THIS PART, AS WELL AS PART B- ΤΟ CHANGE YOUR REGISTRATION.

ANSWER ITEMS 1, 2, AND 3 TO SHOW ENROLLMENT CODE BEING CHANGED AND ELIGIBILITY FOR CHANGE.

1. ENROLLMENT CODE NUMBER OF PRESENT PLAN

2. NUMBER OF EVENT WHICH PERMITS CHANGE. (See table on back of page 2 for proper number.)

3. DATE OF EVENT WHICH PERMITS CHANGE.

MONTH DAY YEAR

## PART E
ALL WHO REGISTER MUST FILL IN THIS PART.

Wendy S Calle

(YOUR SIGNATURE. DO NOT PRINT)

Aug 5, 1978

(DATE)

WARNING. Any intentional false statement in this application or wilful misrepresentation relative thereto is a violation of the law punishable by a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment of not more than 5 years, or both (18 U.S.C, 1001.).

## PART F
TO BE COMPLETED BY AGENCY

1. NAME AND ADDRESS (INCLUDING ZIP CODE) OF EMPLOYING OFFICE

U.S. House of Representatives
Office of Finance, Washington, D.C. 20515

2. DATE RECEIVED IN EMPLOYING OFFICE

3. EFFECTIVE DATE OF: ELECTION.

4. PAYROLL OFFICE NO..

00004832

5. SF 2811 REPORT NO.

(SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED AGENCY OFFICIAL)

REMARKS
FOR USE ONLY BY AGENCY.

Page 2 To Insurance Carrier

Standard Form No. 2809 U.S. Civil Service Commission


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# HEALTH BENEFITS REGISTRATION FORM
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
(Read instructions on back of page 3.)

TO EMPLOYING OFFICE: SHOW OLD CARRIER'S CONTROL NUMBER ONLY IF ELECTION IS TO CANCEL ENROLLMENT OR TO CHANGE OPTIONS OR TYPE OF ENROLLMENT IN THE SAME PLAN.

New Carrier's Control No.
22933820

Old Carrier's Control No.

# PART A

ALL WHO REGISTER MUST FILL IN THIS PART.

1. NAME (LAST)
   Collin
4. YOUR MAILING ADDRESS
   1630 Hobart St. NW
   (CITY)
   WASHINGTON D.C.
   (FIRST)
   Wendy
   (NUMBER AND STREET)
   (STATE)
   (MIDDLE INITIAL)
   S
   (ZIP CODE)
   20007
2. DATE OF BIRTH (Use numbers)
   MONTH DAY YEAR
   03 22 53
5. SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER
3. ARE YOU NOW MARRIED?
   Yes 1
   No 2
6. SEX
   MALE 1
   FEMALE 2

IMPORTANT

IT IS ILLEGAL FOR AN EMPLOYEE OR A MEMBER OF HIS FAMILY TO BE COVERED UNDER MORE THAN ONE ENROLLMENT. IF YOU ARE ALREADY COVERED THROUGH THE FAMILY ENROLLMENT OF ANOTHER FEDERAL OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA EMPLOYEE OR ANNUITANT YOU MUST REGISTER NOT TO ENROLL OR THE OTHER ENROLLMENT MUST BE CANCELED OR CHANGED TO SELF ONLY. SIMILARLY, IF A FAMILY MEMBER LISTED BY YOU IN PART B IS COVERED THROUGH HIS (OR HER) OWN ENROLLMENT, YOU CANNOT ELECT A FAMILY ENROLLMENT UNLESS THE FAMILY MEMBER CANCELS HIS (OR HER) ENROLLMENT. ALSO SEE BACK OF PAGES 2 AND 3.

# PART B
FILL IN THIS PART IF YOU WISH TO ENROLL OR CHANGE YOUR ENROLLMENT IN A HEALTH BENEFITS PLAN.

1. I elect to enroll in a health benefits plan as shown below. I authorize deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to cover my share of the cost of the enrollment. (Copy the information requested below from back page of brochure of the plan you select.)

NAME OF PLAN
Blue Cross/Blue Shield Service/Benefit Plan
OPTION (HIGH OR LOW)
HIGH
ENROLLMENT CODE NUMBER

If enrollment is for Self Only, answer item 1. If enrollment is for Self and Family, also answer item 2.

2. In space below list all eligible family members without exception: List your wife or husband first, then your unmarried children under age 22, including (a) legally adopted children and (b) stepchildren, foster children, and illegitimate children who live with you in a regular parent-child relationship. Include also any unmarried child over 22 who became disabled before age 22 and who, because of the disability, is incapable of self-support. (Attach a doctor's certificate for a disabled child age 22 or over, if one is not already on file.) DO NOT LIST PARENTS OR OTHERS WHO ARE NOT ELIGIBLE FAMILY MEMBERS. THEY WILL NOT RECEIVE BENEFITS, EVEN IF THEY ARE DEPENDENT ON YOU AND ARE LISTED.

NAMES OF FAMILY MEMBERS
DATE OF BIRTH (Month, Day, Year)
NAMES OF FAMILY MEMBERS
DATE OF BIRTH (Month, Day, Year)

Wife or Husband


1


6


2


7


3


8


4


9


5


10


IF YOU ARE CHANGING YOUR ENROLLMENT ALSO FILL IN PART D.

# PART C
FILL IN THIS PART IF YOU WISH NOT TO ENROLL OR IF YOU WISH TO CANCEL YOUR ENROLLMENT.

PLACE AN "X" IN ITEM 1 OR 2 WHICHEVER APPLIES:

1. I ELECT.NOT TO ENROLL IN A PLAN UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM.
2. I ELECT TO CANCEL MY PRESENT ENROLLMENT UNDER THE CODE NUMBER SHOWN BELOW
   Present Enrollment Code Number
   If you elect to cancel be sure to read "Cancellation of Enrollment" on back of page 3.

# PART D
FILL IN THIS PART, AS WELL AS PART B. TO. CHANGE YOUR REGISTRATION.

ANSWER ITEMS 1, 2, AND 3 TO SHOW ENROLLMENT CODE BEING CHANGED AND ELIGIBILITY FOR CHANGE:

1. ENROLLMENT CODE NUMBER OF PRESENT PLAN
2. NUMBER OF EVENT WHICH PERMITS CHANGE. (See table on back of page 2 for proper number.)
3. DATE OF EVENT WHICH PERMITS CHANGE.
   MONTH DAY YEAR

# PART E
ALL WHO REGISTER MUST FILL IN THIS PART.

Wendy S. Collin
(YOUR SIGNATURE. DO NOT PRINT)
Aug 5, 1978
(DATE)

1. NAME AND ADDRESS (INCLUDING ZIP CODE). OF EMPLOYING OFFICE.
   U.S. House of Representatives
   Office of Finance, Washington, D.C. 20515

WARNING.-Any intentional false statement in this application or wilful misrepresentation relative thereto is a violation of the law punishable by a fine of not more than $10,000. or imprisonment of not more than 5 years, or both (18 U.S.C. 1001.)

# PART F
TO BE COMPLETED BY AGENCY

2. DATE RECEIVED IN EMPLOYING OFFICE
3. EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION

4. PAYROLL OFFICE NO.
5. SF 2811 REPORT NO.

REMARKS
FOR USE ONLY BY AGENCY.

(SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED AGENCY OFFICIAL)

NW 88326
DocId:32243290' Page 8
Page 3 - For Official Personnel Folder
Standard Form No. 2809
U.S. Civil Service Commission
FPM Supplement 890-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

If typewriter is not available, bear down with ball-point pen to make legible copies.

# HEALTH BENEFITS REGISTRATION FORM
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM
(Read instructions on back of page 3.)

TO EMPLOYING OFFICE: SHOW OLD CARRIER'S CONTROL NUMBER ONLY IF ELECTION IS TO CANCEL ENROLLMENT OR TO CHANGE OPTIONS OR TYPE OF ENROLLMENT IN THE SAME PLAN.

New Carrier's Control No.
22933820
Old Carrier's Control No.

PART A

ALL WHO REGIS-
TER MUST FILL
IN THIS PART.

1. NAME

4. YOUR MAILING ADDRESS

2. DATE OF BIRTH
   (Use numbers)

3. ARE YOU NOW
   MARRIED?

Yes 1
No 2

5. SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBER

6. SEX
   MALE 1
   FEMALE 2

IMPORTANT

IT IS ILLEGAL FOR AN EMPLOYEE OR A MEMBER OF HIS FAMILY TO BE COVERED UNDER MORE THAN ONE ENROLLMENT. IF YOU ARE ALREADY COVERED THROUGH THE FAMILY ENROLLMENT OF ANOTHER FEDERAL OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA EMPLOYEE OR ANNUITANT YOU MUST REGISTER NOT TO ENROLL OR THE OTHER ENROLLMENT MUST BE CANCELED OR CHANGED TO SELF ONLY. SIMILARLY, IF A FAMILY MEMBER LISTED BY YOU IN PART B IS COVERED THROUGH HIS (OR HER) OWN ENROLLMENT, YOU CANNOT ELECT A FAMILY ENROLLMENT UNLESS THE FAMILY MEMBER CANCELS HIS (OR HER) ENROLLMENT. ALSO SEE BACK OF PAGES 2 AND 3.

PART B

FILL IN THIS
PART IF YOU
WISH TO ENROLL
OR CHANGE
YOUR ENROLL-
MENT IN A
HEALTH BENE-
FITS PLAN...

1. I elect to enroll in a health benefits plan as shown below. I authorize deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to cover my share of the cost of the enrollment. (Copy the information requested below from back page of brochure of the plan you select.)

NAME OF PLAN

OPTION (HIGH OR LOW)

ENROLLMENT CODE NUMBER

2. In space below list all eligible family members without exception: List your wife or husband first, then your-unmarried children under age 22, including (a) legally adopted children and (b) stepchildren, foster children, and illegitimate children who live with you in a regular parent-child relationship. Include also any unmarried child over 22 who became disabled before age 22 and who, because of the disability, is incapable of self-support: (Attach a doctor's certificate for a disabled child age 22 or over, if one is not already on file.). DO NOT LIST PARENTS OR OTHERS WHO ARE NOT ELIGIBLE FAMILY MEMBERS. THEY WILL NOT RECEIVE BENEFITS, EVEN IF THEY ARE DEPENDENT ON YOU AND ARE LISTED.

If enrollment is
for Self Only,
answer item 1.
If enrollment is
for Self and
Family, also an-
swer item 2.

| Wife or Husband | NAMES OF FAMILY MEMBERS | DATE OF BIRTH (Month, Day, Year) |     | NAMES OF FAMILY MEMBERS | DATE OF BIRTH (Month, Day, Year). |
| --------------- | ----------------------- | -------------------------------- | --- | ----------------------- | --------------------------------- |
|                 |                         |                                  | 1   |                         | 6                                 |
|                 |                         |                                  | 2   |                         | 7                                 |
|                 |                         |                                  | 3   |                         | 8                                 |
|                 |                         |                                  | 4   |                         | 9                                 |
|                 |                         |                                  | 5   |                         | 10                                |

IF YOU ARE
CHANGING YOUR
ENROLLMENT
ALSO FILL IN
PART D.

PART C

FILL IN THIS
PART IF YOU
WISH NOT TO
ENROLL OR IF
YOU WISH TO
CANCEL YOUR
ENROLLMENT

PLACE AN"X" IN ITEM 1 OR 2 WHICHEVER APPLIES:

1. I ELECT NOT TO ENROLL IN A PLAN UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM

2. I ELECT TO CANCEL MY PRESENT ENROLLMENT UNDER THE CODE NUMBER SHOWN BELOW:

Present Enrollment Code Number

If you elect to cancel be sure to read "Cancellation of Enrollment" on back of page 3.

PART D

FILL IN THIS
PART, AS WELL
AS PART B, TO
CHANGE YOUR
REGISTRATION.

ANSWER ITEMS 1, 2, AND 3 TO SHOW ENROLLMENT CODE BEING CHANGED AND ELIGIBILITY FOR CHANGE.

1. ENROLLMENT CODE NUMBER OF PRESENT PLAN
2. NUMBER OF EVENT WHICH PERMITS CHANGE (See table on back of page 2 for proper number.)
3. DATE OF EVENT WHICH PERMITS CHANGE:

PART E

ALL WHO REGIS-
TER MUST FILL
IN THIS PART.

(YOUR SIGNATURE DO NOT PRINT)
(DATE)

1. NAME AND ADDRESS (INCLUDING ZIP CODE) OF EMPLOYING OFFICE

MONTH DAY YEAR

WARNING.-Any intentional false statement in this application or wilful misrepresentation relative thereto is a violation of the law punishable by a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment of not more than 5 years, or both (18 U.S.C. 1001.)

2. DATE RECEIVED IN EMPLOYING OFFICE
3. EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION

PART F

TO BE
COMPLETED
BY AGENCY

(SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED AGENCY OFFICIAL).

4. PAYROLL OFFICE NO.
5. SF 2811 REPORT NO.

REMARKS
FOR USE ONLY
BY AGENCY.

2809-115-01

Page 4- To Enrollee

Standard Form No. 2809
U.S. Civil Service Commission
FPM Supplement 890-1
November 1972:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# PAYROLL INFORMATION FORM AND PERSONNEL AFFIDAVIT
PLEASE USE TYPEWRITER OR PRINT IN INK

CODE:
Finance Office Use Only

# U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Name Collins, Wendy Susan
(Last-First-Middle)-
Employing Office U.S. House Select Committee on ASSASSINATIONS
Social Security No. 024-44-5163
Date of birth 03-22-53


## ADDRESSES

Mailing address for withholding tax statement:
Mailing address for payroll check (Bank; home, office, etc.):
1630 Hobart St., N.W.
Select COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20009
House Annex #2 - RM
WASH., D.C. 20515


FINANCE OFFICE USE ONLY Bank Code: _ Bank Account No. _
(Do not insert Bank Account Number unless check
is to be mailed to a bank)

## PREVIOUS FEDERAL CIVILIAN SERVICE

☐ House of Representatives Office of Select Committee ON ASSASSINATIONS
Separation date of last service July 31, 78

☐ Other Federal Departments (including Senate and Architect)
Agency
Separation date of last service

☐ Name (if different from present signature)

While employed as above I was covered by:

Federal Employees' Health Insurance: ☑ enrolled; ☐ not enrolled; ☐ excluded.
Federal Employees' Life Insurance: ☐ optional; ☐ regular; ☑ waived; ☐ excluded.

## ELECTION OF RETIREMENT COVERAGE

Coverage under the provisions of the Civil Service Retirement Act is extended to employees of the House
of Representatives on a voluntary basis. Once you have elected this coverage and retirement deductions
have been withheld, such deductions cannot be discontinued so long as you are continuously employed
under the Act.

Check the appropriate box to the right:

I elect coverage under the provisions of the Civil Service Retirement Act and request that deduc- YES
tions begin at the earliest possible date. (If you have had previous Federal or Military service,
please submit dates, Agencies and Military Serial Number on a separate sheet.)

I do not wish to elect coverage under the Retirement Act at this time. NO
(Note: Legislative employees are not covered by the Social Security Act.)


(Over)

NW 88326
DocId:32243290 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

District of Columbia (or State-of) SS:

I do solemnly swear (or affirm)—

(1) That [X] I am a citizen of the United States.;

[ ] if in the service on the date of enactment of the latest General Government Matters
Appropriation Act, and being eligible for citizenship, I had theretofore filed a declara-
tion of intention to become a citizen;

[ ] I owe allegiance to the United States;

[ ] I am an alien from Poland or the Baltic countries lawfully admitted to the United States
for permanent residence;

[ ] I am a citizen of the Republic of the Philippines;

[ ] I am a national of a country allied with the United States in the current defense effort;

(2) That my acceptance and holding of office or employment with the U.S. House of Representatives
does not or (if this affidavit is executed by me prior to my acceptance of such office or employment) will
not constitute a violation of the first section of the Act of August 9, 1955 (5 U.S.C. 7311), which reads as
follows:

No person shall accept or hold office or employment in the Government of the United States or any agency thereof,
including wholly owned Government corporations, who—

(1) advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government in the United States;

(2) is a member of an organization that advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government in the
United States, knowing that such organization so advocates;

(3) participates in any strike or asserts the right to strike against the Government of the United States or such
agency; or

(4) is a member of an organization of Government employees that asserts the right to strike against the Govern-
ment of the United States or such agencies, knowing that such organization asserts such right;

(3) That I [ ] am [X] am not receiving a pension, annuity, or retired pay from the United States
Government (if so, please furnish source and claim number);

(Name and location of administering agency) (Claim number)

(4) That this Payroll Information Form and Personnel Affidavit is complete, true, and correct;

(5) That I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign
and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the
duties of the office on which I am about to enter; So help me God.

Subscribed and sworn to before me this 31 day of July 19 78

![Signature of employee]

![Notary Public]

State-of District

My commission expires 9-15-82


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# U.S. House of Representatives
OFFICE OF THE CLERK
OFFICE OF FINANCE

# IMPORTANT NOTICE TO EMPLOYEE

Newly employed personnel must execute the attached combined PAYROLL INFORMATION FORM and PERSONNEL AFFIDAVIT properly and submit them to the Office of Finance, where a Notary Public is on duty to perform this service without charge. DO NOT SIGN PERSONNEL AFFIDAVIT UNTIL BEFORE A NOTARY.

Currently employed personnel wishing to make changes in their records need only complete the pertinent section of the PAYROLL INFORMATION FORM, indicate their employing office, and affix their signature. Please be certain that information is legible enough for the Finance Office' to identify the individual making the change.

# DETACH AND RETAIN THIS NOTICE

Salary payments are made by check monthly and mailed to the address designated on the Payroll Information Form. Checks are disbursed from the Office of Finance to normally reach the addressee on the last working day of each month.

For additional information, contact the Office of Finance, 263 Cannon Office Building, Telephone Extension 56515 or 57064.

# EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

RETIREMENT: An employee of the House of Representatives is eligible to join the Federal Civil Service Retirement System. Participation is voluntary, and action to elect retirement coverage may be initiated at any time by completing the appropriate section of the Payroll Information Form. Once an election is filed and the normal deduction of 71/2 percent of the gross salary commences, the employee cannot discontinue deductions so long as he is continuously employed. (Note: Legislative employees are not covered by the Social Security Act.)

LIFE INSURANCE: An employee is automatically covered under the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance Act unless he waives or subsequently cancels such coverage by filing the required waiver form with the Office of Finance. The insurance coverage is $10,000; or an amount equal to the gross annual salary, rounded to the next higher thousand dollars (if the salary is not a multiple of a thousand dollars), plus an additional two thousand dollars; whichever is the greater. Additional optional insurance coverage in the amount of $10,000 is also available.

HEALTH BENEFITS: The Federal Employees' Health Benefits Program is available on a voluntary basis with costs partly financed by the Government. Within 31 days after the effective date of appointment, every employee must register to enroll in a plan or not to enroll. Future opportunities to enroll or to change the type of enrollment are shown in the enclosed pamphlet. Also enclosed is the necessary registration form, Standard Form 2809.

U.S. SAVINGS BONDS: Monthly deductions for bonds in regular bond denominations may be authorized. Authorization cards are available in the Finance Office.

WORK INJURY BENEFITS: An employee injured or incurring disease as a result of performance of duty is entitled to medical care and monetary benefits under the provisions of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act. In instances where such injury or disease is fatal, the employee's family is entitled to monetary benefits. The Compensation Act is administered by the Bureau of Employees' Compensation, U.S. Department of Labor. Forms for filing notices of injury and claims for compensation are available in the Office of Finance or from any Postmaster.

UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION: An employee may under certain circumstances be entitled to unemployment compensation if discharged or otherwise separated from his employment. The compensation is usually payable by the State (including the District of Columbia) in which the employee had his last service. However, a claim for benefits may be filed in the local office nearest the employee's residence. If an employee is discharged for misconduct, quits voluntarily without good cause, or refuses a suitable job without good cause, then there is a period of disqualification which varies from State to State. The amount of payments and period of time payable also varies from State to State.

NW 88326
DocId:32243290 Page 12

16-82058-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel

DATE: December 19, 1977

RE: Ms. Wendy Collins

Please be advised that Ms. Wendy Collins has accepted the position of Senior Attorney Researcher with the Select Committee on Assassinations. Her effective starting date will be December 29, 1977 and her starting salary will be $18,000.00.

Your full cooperation will be appreciated in familiarizing her with staff procedures and welcoming her aboard.

ICM:jl

NW 88326
DocId:32243290 Page 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

![Wendy S Callis Signature of Employee]

29 Dec 77
Date

NW 88326
DocId:32243290 Page 14


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)