# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10490
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 13
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10490

RECORDS SERIES:
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 12/27/76

PAGES: 13

SUBJECTS:
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
MORTON, RITA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION: U

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

June 16, 1977

Mrs. Rita L. Morton
5056 Silver Hill Court
Apt. 202
Suitland, Maryland 20028

Dear Rita:

I want you to know how much the Committee and I appreciate your service and how much we regret that you will no longer be a member of the staff.

You have our best wishes always.

Sincerely yours,

Louis Stokes
Chairman

LS:tle

NW 88326
Docld:32239498 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. JOHN B. ANDERSON, ILL.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN. CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

# Select Committee on Assassinations

**U.S. House of Representatives**

3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 25, 1977

Mr. Alvin B. Lewis, Jr.
Acting Chief Counsel and Staff Director
Select Committee on Assassinations
Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Mr. Lewis:

This letter is to inform you of my resignation from the Select Committee on Assassinations effective April 30, 1977.

Sincerely

![Signature of Rita L. Morton]

Rita L. Morton

cc: Robert K. Tanenbaum, JFK Task Force

NW 88326
DocId:32239498 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Rita Laverne Morton               | 4/30/77                                              |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 579 64 6855                       |                                                      |
| Employing Office or Committee     |                                                      |
| Assassinations                    |                                                      |
|                                   | Appointment                                          |
|                                   | Salary Adjustment                                    |
|                                   | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                |                     |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1.  Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.
2.  Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 _of_ 95th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number________ If applicable, Level ________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date May 2 19 77

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239498 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

April 27, 1977

Mrs. Rita L. Morton
Select Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Rita:

As I told you personally, I was very
disappointed to receive your letter of resignation,
but I understand your reasons.

I enjoyed working with you and compliment
you on the excellent job you did for the Committee.
I trust you will stop and visit us when you are in
the vicinity.

With all best wishes for your future,

Sincerely,

Alvin B. Lewis, Jr.
Acting Chief Counsel and Director

ABL:elb

NW 88326
Docld:32239498 Page 6

Becky


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Rita L. Morton                    | 4/1/77                                               |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 579 64 6855                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                | $26,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress..

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date April 29 19 77

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the. Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $___________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32239498 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN

Please consider this verification that Rita LaVerne Morton began employment, permanent full-time status, with the House of Representatives Select Committee on Assassinations December 27, 1976, and is so currently employed.

Rebecca Wheeler Martin
Chief Clerk

February 8, 1977

NW 88326
DocId:32239498 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)  | Effective Date                                         |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Rita L. Morton                     | 1/3/77                                                 |
| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action                                         |
| Я叉яхийхиВАХ 579 64 6855            | ☐ Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee      | ☑ Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Select Committee on Assassinations | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                | $10,000.            |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 11 of 95 Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number________ If applicable, Level________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date__________, 19 77

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Henry B. Gonzalez

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code________

Monthly Annuity $________.00

'NW 88326
DocId:32239498 Page 9 Copy for Initiating Office or Committee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)  | Effective Date                                       |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Rita L. Morton                     | 12/27/76                                             |
| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action                                       |
| 579 64 5655                        |                                                      |
| Employing Office or Committee      |                                                      |
| Select Committee on Assassinations | Appointment                                          |
|                                    | Salary Adjustment                                    |
|                                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Secretary      | $14,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 1540 of 94th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number __________ If applicable, Level ______ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date December 15 1976

Thomas N. Downing, Chairmen
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Select Committee on Assassinations
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________

Monthly Annuity $________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32239498 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees

FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

![lines]

I am not related to any Member of Congress

I am related by the following relationship

![signature of rita marton]
Rita Marton
Signature of Employee

1/10/77
Date

NW 88326
Docld:32239498 Page 11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# RESUME

RecommeNDED By CongRESS WOMAN Buggs MORTON

Rita LaVerne Morton
Date of Birth: 8/3/48
5056 Silver Hill Court
Place of Birth: Washington, D.C.
Apt. 202
Suitland, Maryland 20028
736-5834
Office - 225-1776

## EDUCATION

Calvin Coolidge High School - Graduated, June 1966
Strayer Business College - Business Course, February 1967

## EMPLOYMENT

Secretary/Staff Assistant - U.S. Congress, Joint Committee on Arrangements for Commemoration of the Bicentennial, Chaired by Congresswoman Lindy (Mrs. Hale) Boggs - March 1976 -

Responsibilities: Typing of Committee reports and final copy for a variety of Committee publications. Worked closely with Members of Congress and Staff Director in coordinating Committee informational services and special events. Assisted in planning Committee meetings and development of minutes. Operated all office equipment including Gestner, Mag Card II, xerox and teletype. Special skills include shorthand/Dictaphone.

Executive Secretary to Executive Director - Health Manpower Development Corporation - October 1974 to September 1975

Responsibilities: Typing of all correspondence for the Executive Director, scheduled daily appointments, conferences, and travel itinerary. Also responsible for production typing on the Sperry/Remington Word Processing Machine.

Administrative Assistant to Project Director, Poly Drug Abuse Project, National Medical Association, Inc. - May to August 1974

Responsibilities: Typing of all documents, handled all administrative tasks and attended regular project meetings.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

RESUME
Rita L. Morton
Page Two

Office Manager/Administrative Assistant - Advisory and Learning
Exchange - January 1972 to March 1973

Responsibilities: Included typing of monthly calendar
of workshops and seminars, scheduled meetings for
large groups, responsible for all staff requests, and
complete management of a small non-profit educational
organization.

Secretary - Urban Institute - November 1968 to January 1972

Responsibilities: Typed drafts and final reports for
three project directors on research staff and other
secretarial duties.

Secretary/Administrative Assistant - Urban America, Inc. -
June 1967 - November 1968

Responsibilities: Typed all reports for Assistant
Directors on Housing Staff, scheduled conferences,
and travel itinerary. Promoted to Administrative
Assistant with control over secretarial staff.

TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT

Kelly Services, Inc., Washington, D. C., 1973-1975
Tele Sec, Inc., Washington, D. C., 1975-1976
Institute for Services to Education, 2001 S Street, N.W.,
Washington, D. C., 1974-1976

REFERENCES

Wallace 0. Green
Staff Director
Joint Committee on the Bicentennial
U. S. Congress
Washington, D.C. 20515
225-1776

Mrs. Karen Butler
Health Manpower Development Corporation
1990 M Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20036
872-1355

Ms. Bea Smith
Institute for Services
to Education
2001 S Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20009
232-9000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

## Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

December 10, 1976

To: Mr. Sprague

From: Sue

Re: Rita Morton

Mr. Gay has interviewed Rita and recommends her.

Joan Thornell, who worked with us on the Joint
Committee as a consultant for one of our
Bicentennial projects, also recommends Rita.

I would recommend her to be a Typist/Secretary
for her skills are excellent.

![Diction marker]

Presently @ $11,500

Last day would be 12/20

at her present job.

Recommended - AL

NW 88326
DocId:32239498 Page 14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, CURRENCY AND HOUSING

MEMORANDUM

November 30, 1976

Dear Donovan,

Attached is the resume of a Ms. Rita L. Morton who presently is Secretary/Staff Assistant to the Joint Committee on Arrangements for Commemoration of the Bicenten-nial.

I highly recommend her for a sec-retarial position and would appreciate any consideration you may give her.

If you have any questions, don't hesitate to call me.

Thanks,

Tommy Goines

NW 88326
DocId:32239498 Page 15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

Rita LaVerne Morton
5056 Silver Hill Court
Apt. 202
Suitland, Maryland 20028
736-5834

RESUME Intermewed hey 12/6/76
Typist
Date of Birth: 8/3/48
Place of Birth: Washington, D.C.
RE: Thornell

## EDUCATION

Calvin Coolidge High School - Graduated, June 1966
Strayer Business College - Business Course, February 1967

## EMPLOYMENT

Secretary/Staff Assistant - U.S. Congress, Joint Committee on Arrangements for Commemoration of the Bicentennial, Chaired by Congresswoman Lindy (Mrs. Hale) Boggs - March 1976

Responsibilities: Typing of Committee reports and final copy for a variety of Committee publications. Worked closely with Members of Congress and Staff Director in coordinating Committee informational services and special events. Assisted in planning Committee meetings and development of minutes. Operated all office equipment including Gestner, Mag Card II, xerox and teletype. Special skills include shorthand/Dictaphone.

Executive Secretary to Executive Director - Health Manpower Development Corporation - October 1974 to September 1975

Responsibilities: Typing of all correspondence for the Executive Director, scheduled daily appointments, conferences, and travel itinerary. Also responsible for production typing on the Sperry/Remington Word Processing Machine.

Administrative Assistant to Project Director, Poly Drug Abuse Project, National Medical Association, Inc. - May to August 1974

Responsibilities: Typing of all documents, handled all administrative tasks and attended regular project meetings.

NW 88326
DocId:32239498 Page 16


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# RESUME
Rita L. Morton
Page Two

Office Manager/Administrative Assistant - Advisory and Learning Exchange - January 1972 to March 1973

Responsibilities: Included typing of monthly calendar of workshops and seminars, scheduled meetings for large groups, responsible for all staff requests, and complete management of a small non-profit educational organization.

Secretary - Urban Institute - November 1968 to January 1972

Responsibilities: Typed drafts and final reports for three project directors on research staff and other secretarial duties.

Secretary/Administrative Assistant - Urban America, Inc. - June 1967 - November 1968

Responsibilities: Typed all reports for Assistant Directors on Housing Staff, scheduled conferences, and travel itinerary. Promoted to Administrative Assistant with control over secretarial staff.

TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT

Kelly Services, Inc., Washington, D. C., 1973-1975
Tele Sec, Inc., Washington, D. C., 1975-1976
Institute for Services to Education, 2001 S Street, N.W., Washington, D. C., 1974-1976

REFERENCES

Wallace 0. Green
Staff Director
Joint Committee on the Bicentennial
U. S. Congress
Washington, D.C. 20515
225-1776

Mrs. Karen Butler
Health Manpower Development Corporation
1990 M Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20036
872-1355

Ms. Bea Smith
Institute for Services
to Education
2001 S Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20009
232-9000


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)