# Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10147-10259
RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
Docld:32277340 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 07/08/95
Page : 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10147-10259
RECORDS SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE : 03/27/78
PAGES : 4
SUBJECTS : SACCO, THOMAS W.
DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/26/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Box 3

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------- |
| Thomas Wayne Sacco                         | 12/31/78       |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action |
| 042-42-5437                                |                |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |                |
| Assassinations                             |                |

*   Appointment
*   Salary Adjustment
*   Title Change
*   Termination (At close of business on effective date)
*   Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |

*   If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1.  Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.
2.  Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res956 of 95th Congress.
3.  Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level__________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date January 2 19 79

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name and title of above official) CHAIRMAN
(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code..........

Monthly Annuity $___________.00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

ID _________

Benefits _________

Payroll

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326
Docld:32277340 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------- |
| Thomas Wayne Sacco                         | 3/27/73        |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action |
| 042-42-5437                                |                |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |                |
| Assassinations                             |                |

*   Appointment

*   Salary Adjustment

*   Title Change

*   Termination (Af close of business on effective date)

*   Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business__________)
    Specify Date

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title    | Gross Annual Salary* |
| ----------------- | -------------------- |
| Research Attorney | 18,000.00            |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.956_of Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________If applicable, Level________Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date March 29 , 19_78

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN
(Type or print name and title of above official) (Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code. ID

Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of Benefits

Payroll (Revised: August 1 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32277340 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel d.c.m.

DATE: 23 March 1978

RE: Mr. Thomas W. Sacco

Please be advised that effective Monday, March 27, 1977, Mr. Thomas W. Sacco has accepted the position of Research Attorney with the Martin Luther King Task Force/HSCA. His effective starting salary will be $18,000.00.

If you have any questions concerning this matter, please contact me at your convenience.

ICM:j

NW 88326
DocId:32277340 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

☑ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

☐ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

![Date]

NW 88326
DocId:32277340 Page 6


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)