JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 10/14/20

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10104-10354
RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES.
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 009383

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOD
FROM: MILLER, JUDITH A.
TO: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT.
TITLE:

DATE: 06/22/1978
PAGES: 22

SUBJECTS: CIA.
OSWALD, LEE; PRE-RUSSIAN PERIOD-MILITARY SERVICE.
NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE (1960-64).
DOD, FILES.

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT.
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3; Open in Full
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/20/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Box 172.

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88326 Date: 2025

v9.1
NW 88326 DocId:32260796 Page 1

1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

![DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA]

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20301

Дек.
009385

June 22, 1978

G. Robert Blakey, Esq.
Chief Counsel and Director
Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Blakey:

Attached are fact sheets submitted by the Department of the Navy in response to inquiries from the Select Committee dated March 15. and 20 (date of receipt); April 12, 20, 28; May 3 and 9; and June 1, 1978.

For your information, the Air Force, DIA and DIS have now completed their reviews for information requested in all letters received at DoD by June 6, 1978. With the exception of your May 8, 1978 request (on which a search is still proceeding), the Navy has also completed its review for all information requested through June 6, 1978. The Army has completed its search efforts for the first twenty-six of your letters, dated between December 27, 1977, and May 11, 1978. The results of these searches have been made available for review at this Department--with the exception of a few items where further information has been requested to permit completion of the search.

Sincerely,

![signature of Judy Miller]

Judith A. Miller
Assistant to The Special Assistant

Attachments

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# FACT SHEET ON SELECT COMMITTEE REQUESTS FOR

DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY RECORDS

| Date of Request |                                                                                                       |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 3/15/78         | 1. Valeriy Valdimirovich Kostiko - no records identifiable within the Department of the Navy.         |
|                 | 2. Yuri Ivanovich Nosenko - no records identifiable within the Department of the Navy.                |
| 3/20/78         | 1. William P. Dolzel - no records identifiable.                                                       |
| (received)      | 2. Alberto Hernández Hechevarri - no records identifiable.                                            |
|                 | 3. Orest Pena - no records identifiable.                                                              |
|                 | 4. Rolando Pelasz - no records identifiable.                                                          |
|                 | 5. Clay Shaw - no records identifiable.                                                               |
|                 | 6. Kerry Wendall Thornley - no records identifiable.                                                  |
|                 | 7. Jonquin Villoda - no records identifiable.                                                         |
|                 | 8. Luis Balbuena - no records identifiable other than what DIA possesses (previously made available). |
| 4/20/78         | 1. Eleanor E. Archer - no records identifiable.                                                       |
|                 | 2. Anthony Colosacco - no records identifiable.                                                       |
|                 | 3. Herman Milton - no records identifiable.                                                           |
|                 | 4. John M. Geizzaffi - no records identifiable.                                                       |
|                 | 5. Maurice Lerner - no records identifiable.                                                          |
|                 | 6. Gordon McLendon - no records identifiable.                                                         |
|                 | 7. Albert Meadows - no records identifiable.                                                          |
|                 | 8. Isadore Miller - no records identifiable.                                                          |
|                 | 9. Thomas R. Peasner - no records identifiable.                                                       |
|                 | 10. Victor Periera - no records identifiable.                                                         |

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Date of
Request

4/20/78 11. Harry Raymond Pope - no records identifiable.
(con't)

12. Helen Kay Smith - no records identifiable.

13. John Eli Stone - no records identifiable.

14. Charles Tourine - no records identifiable.

15. John Benton Turns - no records identifiable.

16. Anthony Zoppi - no records identifiable.

4/28/78 1. Richard Cain - no records identifiable within the
(Ltr #2) Department of the Navy.

2. Jorge Alonso Pujol - no records identifiable.

3. Henry Savaadra - no records identifiable.

4. I. Irving Davidson - no records identifiable.

5. James Plumeri - no records identifiable.

6. Salvadore Granello - no records identifiable.

7. John La Rocca - The Naval Investigative Service (NIS) holds
   a file on an enlisted member of the U.S. Marine Corps by
   the name of John Andrew LaRocca. This individual is not
   believed to be identifiable with "John LaRocca, Pennsylvania
   mobster arrested in 1957", as he was born in 1948.

8. Angelo Bruno - The NIS holds a file containing the results
   of a January 1978, investigation conducted at Naples, Italy,
   concerning an individual named Angelo Frank Bruno. That
   individual's date and place of birth is listed as January
   25, 1902 or 1903, at Licato, Sicily, Italy. At the time
   of the investigation Bruno was incarcerated in a Federal
   prison in the United States. Nevertheless, there is nothing
   in the file which would indicate this individual is identi-
   fiable as the Angelo Bruno, "Philadelphia Crime Boss."

9. Sam Mannarino - no records identifiable.

10. Garbriel Mannarino - no records identifiable.

11. Joseph Shimon - no records identifiable.

12. Sergio Arcaha Smith - file has been made available.

13. George Woodcock, Jr. - a copy of the NIS Report of Invest-
    igation is available.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Undated Committee Request:

1.  Zack Stout - 1607642. Latest available mailing address provided Select Committee by phone.

2.  George Arthur Wilkins, Jr. - Latest available mailing address provided Select Committee by phone.

3.  Robert Augg - Identified as former Marine Robert Royce Augg - 1596827. Personnel record has been made available for inspection.

4.  Nelson Delgado - Identified as former Marine Nelson Delgado 1644884. Personnel record has been made available for inspection.

5.  Carson Roberts - Has been previously identified as Lieutenant General Carson A. Roberts, 04463, U.S. Marine Corps Retired. Mailing address previously provided the Committee.

6.  Thomas Arthur Vallee - 1114455. Identified as a former Marine. Personnel record has been made available for inspection.

7.  Allan 0. Thompson - Has been tentatively identified as a former Marine by the name of Alva Owen Thompson. Marine Corps personnel record has been made available for inspection.

8.  Kerry Wendall Thornley - A former Marine with same name but the date of birth of 4/17/38 instead of 4/19/38 has been identified and a certified copy of Thornley's Marine record has been made available for inspection.

9.  John E. Donovan - A former Marine with same name but with date of birth of 8/31/34 instead of 8/21/34 has been identified and a certified copy of Donovan's personnel record has been made available for inspection. It was noted that correspondence in the Marine Corps jacket indicated that Donovan joined the U.S. Army subsequent to his tour with the Marine Corps.

10. Chief Warrant Officer Morgan - This officer has been identified as Captain Roger G. Morgan, U.S. Marine Corps Retired. His mailing address is Route 1, Sewalls Point, Jensen Beach, Flordia 33457.

Date of Request

5/3/78

1.  Colonel Mario Silvesto - no record identifiable.

2.  Thomas Arthur Vallee - no record identifiable.

3.  Gary Taylor - no record identifiable.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Date of
Request

5/3/78
(con't)

4. Leonard Calvery - no record identifiable.

5. Jack Brown - no record identifiable.

6. Robert Augg - all information previously forwarded.

7. Zack Stout - all information previously forwarded.

8. Richard Call - all information previously forwarded.

9. Nelson Delgado - no record identifiable.

10. Aline Mosley - no record identifiable.

11. Pauline Bates" - no record identifiable.

12. Carson Roberts - no record identifiable.

13. Adrian Alba - no record identifiable..

14. Mrs. G. Stanley Brown Vera.. no record. identifiable.

15. Emmet Charles Babe, Jr. no record identifiable.

16. Lt. Francis Martello. no record identifiable.

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# FACT SHEET ON NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE, 1960-64

With regard to the last two paragraphs of the undated request received in the Office of the Secretary of Defense on March 20, 1978, the Naval Investigative Service has been unable to identify any personnel presently or formerly associated with its Service, or its predecessor organizations, who were involved in the activities described. In general, the monitoring of activities or the utilization of sources within the Cuban anti-Castro groups in Miami and New Orleans during the period 1960 to 1964 was under the primary jurisdiction of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).

The NIS was established in 1966 under the Naval Intelligence Command (NIC). At that time, the Service assumed the basic mission of what previously had been known as the Investigations Branch (0p-921D), and the Counterintelligence Branch (0p-921E) of the Security Division (0p-921) of the Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI). During the period 1960 to 1964, the primary activity of those branches involved criminal investigations, counterintelligence investigations, and background investigations of Navy military and civilian personnel and Department of Defense civilian contractor personnel for security clearance. Contacts with both current and former NIS personnel knowledgeable of the activities of both Op-921D and Op-921E during the period in question revealed no recollection of assignment of agents or other employees to maintain sources or otherwise investigate or monitor the Cuban anti- Castro groups in those cities. Their recollection was that the FBI and CIA did investigate such activities.

As further background, it is noted that the establishment of the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) in the early 1960's created shifts of mission and personnel from ONI to that organization. Prior to the establishment of the DIA, the structure of ONI included, in addition to the above-mentioned Security Division (0p-921), the Intelligence Production Division (0p-922) and the Administrative Division (0p-923). The former, Op-922, was sometimes referred to as the Foreign Intelligence Division and most of its functions were transferred to DIA. That transfer of functions also included transfers of ONI personnel and records. OP-922H was the branch responsible for collection and dissemination of foreign intelligence. A knowledgeable individual currently assigned with the NIC stated that the activities of Op-922H included interviews of anti-Castro Cubans at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but noted that any necessary contacts or utilization of anti-Castro Cubans in Miami or New Orleans were required to be coordinated through the FBI or the CIA, because of the jurisdiction of those organizations in those geographical locations.

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# FACT SHEET ON APRIL 12 REQUESTS CONCERNING LEE HARVEY OSWALD

The following information has been provided by the Naval Investigative Service and responds to those portions of the April 12, requests by the Select Committee for all records regarding: Lee Harvey Oswald; any and all records concerning or referring to investigations into Oswald's background conducted by the 112th Military Intelligence Group, circa 1963; a detailed statement explaining why a photograph of Oswald in the possession of the Navy was contained in an envelope marked "Received 14 Nov 1963" and "CIA 77978," and answers to other questions regarding actions in connection with the photograph.

A written list of those persons who were either connected with, responsible for, or knowledgeable about the Office of Naval Intelligence (ONI) file pertaining to Oswald is attached, as Appendix A.

All available records held by the NIS pertaining to Lee Harvey Oswald have previously been made available to the Select Committee, with the exception of records which were originated by or under the release authority of the Department of State, the Office of the Attorney General, the CIA, the FBI, and the DIA. The latter records were referred to those agencies for processing and a direct response to the Select Committee.

The NIS holds no records concerning or referring to investigations into Oswald's background by the 112th Military Intelligence Group. Copy pages of the NIS file numbered 253 through 255 (previously forwarded to the Select Committee) consists of a U.S. Continental Army Command (USCONARC) message. It contains information concerning Oswald which was provided to the "112th INTC GP" by an Assistant Chief of Police with the Dallas Police Department.

Enclosure (1) to Appendix B is a copy of the envelope which the Select Committee referred to in connection with a photograph of Oswald. The notations on the envelope refer to a Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) message with a date/time group of 2518002 October 1963, which readdressed a CIA teletype numbered 77978. The ONI file on Oswald, which is the file maintained by the NIS, did not contain a copy of the CNO message in question, and it is not known why a copy of it was not contained therein. On 25 April 1978 a representative of NIS obtained a copy of CIA teletype number 77978 of 24 October 1963 (enclosure (2), appendix B). That copy is in the format in which the CIA has released it to the public in response to Freedom of Information Act requests. Enclosure (2), is addressed to the Department of the

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

2

Navy; refers to a CIA teletype number 74673 of 10 October 1963 (referring the possible presence of Oswald in Mexico City), and requests that two copies of the most recent photograph of Oswald be provided to the CIA for purposes of determining whether he and the individual in Mexico City were one and the same. Enclosure (3) to appendix C is a copy of CIA teletype number 74673 of 10 October 1963. It was also obtained from the CIA on 25 April 1978, and is in the format in which the CIA has released it to the public in response to Freedom of Information Act requests. The ONI file on Oswald contained a copy of a CNO message with a date/time group of 1020122 October 1963, which readdressed CIA teletype number 74673. A copy of that CNO message was one of the documents referred by NIS to the CIA on 15 August 1977.

To respond directly to the Select Committee's questions, the reason that a photograph of Oswald was at one time contained in an envelope marked "Received 14 Nov 1963" and "CIA 77978" appear to be that it was obtained as a result of the request of the CIA set forth in Enclosure (2) to appendix B. There is no documentation in the Oswald file revealing the manner in which the identification photo- graph of Oswald was obtained. References to the photograph appear on copy pages numbered 268, 278, and 282 of the material that was for- warded to the Select Committee. Those documents are dated 22 and 23 November 1963, the day of and the day following the assassination of President Kennedy. The references to the photograph on the copy page numbered 278 indicated that Admiral Taylor, who was then the Director of Naval Intelligence (DNI), would "....require at least two extra copies of the photograph of Oswald, for forwarding by DNI to Mexico City, by mail, and for Mr. McCone."

On 25 April 1978, the identification photograph of Oswald which had been mailed to Mexico City, and the envelope in which it was mailed, were viewed at CIA Headquarters, Langley, Virginia. The photograph was a 3" x 3" print which was stapled to a piece of paper indicating it had been received at 1530, Mexico City time, on 26 November 1963. The envelope indicated it was mailed, Air Mail- Special Delivery, by CNO (Op-923M) to an individual at the Embassy of the United States of America, Mexico City, and was postmarked on 23 November 1963. (In 1963, Op-923M was the administrative code for the General Services Branch, Administrative Division, ONI.)

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# PERSONS KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOUT THE ONI FILE ON OSWALD

For purposes of providing background in regard to the list of persons who were connected with, responsible for, or knowledgeable about the ONI file on Oswald, it is necessary to understand the structure of the ONI during the period starting when Oswald defected to Russia (1959), to the time of the assassination of President Kennedy (1963). During that period of time, the ONI (Op-92) consisted primarily of three divisions, the Security Division (0p-921), the Intelligence Production Division (0p-922), and the Administrative Division (0p-923). As explained in the fact sheet on the NIS, the Naval Investigative Service was established in 1966, at which time the personnel and basic mission of what had previously been known as the Investigations Branch (0p-921D) and the Counterintelligence Branch (0p-921E) of the Security Division, ONI were assumed. There was no ONI file on Oswald prior to his defection to Russia. Because of his inactive duty/civilian status from that time on, the primary investigation jurisdiction in regard to the counterintelligence interest in him rested with the FBI. This is the reason the bulk of the ONI file on Oswald consisted of other agency and administrative documents, and newspaper clippings. The primary responsibility for monitoring the file within ONI was with the Counterintelligence Branch (0p-921E), or, more specifically, the Programs Section (0p-921E2) of the Counterintelligence Branch. In reviewing the file in regard to identification of individuals who originated administrative documentation for signature by individuals further up the chain of command, the names of three junior naval officers appear. This indicates that they probably had the period between Oswald's defection and the assassination. The file identifies those officers as Lieutenant Junior Grade G. M. Fredrickson in 1960, Lieutenant Junior Grade P. C. LeSourd in 1962, and Ensign J. A. Hazelton in 1963. Other individuals who, because of their positions within the ONI, or more particularly, their positions within ONI at the time of the assassination of President Kennedy, would have become connected with and knowledgeable about the file are:

*   Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor, USN (Retired), the DNI (0p-92) at the time of the assassination;

*   Captain Robert P. Jackson, Jr., USNR (Retired), the Assistant DNI for Security (0p-921) at the time of assassination;

*   Captain Jack 0. Johnson, USN (Retired), the Executive Officer to Captain Jackson at the time of the assassination;

*   Captain John C. Lacy, USNR (Retired), Head, Counterintelligence Branch (0p-921E) in 1959;

*   Commander William H. Clark, USNR (retired), Head Counterintelligence Branch (0p-921E) in 1963;

APPENDIX A


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

Mr. William Abbott, Civilian, Assistant to the Head, Counter-intelligence Branch, during the entire period of 1959 through 1963;

Mr. Prosser W. Palmer, Civilian, assigned to the Programs Section (0p-921E2) during the entire period of 1959 through 1963; and

Mr. Donald R. Paschal, Civilian, assigned to Programs Section (0p-921E2) in 1963.

The three junior naval officers have been more fully identified as follows:

LTJG George Marsh Fredrickson, USN
Military Service Number (MSN): 559112
Social Security Account Number (SSAN): 503-28-3599
Year of Birth (YOB): 1934
Last Known Address (1966): 91 Reed Street
Lexington, Mass.

LTJG Peter Charles LeSourd, USNR
MSN: 638384
SSAN: 538-34-2364
YOB: 1938
Last Known Address (1971): 1222 East Crockett
Seattle, Washington

ENS John Anthony Hazelton, USNR
MSN: 662076
DOB: 15 December 1938
Last Known Address (1972): 6333 Shoreham Drive
Madison, Wisconsin

The addresses of the other officers are as follows:

Vice Admiral Rufus L. Taylor, USN (Retired)
Current Address: 90 N. Lakeview Drive
Whispering Pines, North Carolina

Captain Robert P. Jackson, Jr., USNR (Retired)
Current Address: Street Address Unknown
Metairie, Louisiana

Captain Jack 0. Johnson, USN (Retired)
Current Address: 195 East Stanford Street
Bartow, Flordia

Commander William H. Clark, USNR (Retired)
Current Address: 740th Street, Unit 209
Ocean City, Maryland


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Mr. William Abbott
Last known Address (1970): 2737 Devonshire Road, NW
Washington, D. C.

Mr. Prosser W. Palmer
Last Known Address (1967): 4643 Seminary Road
Apt 303
Alexandria, Virginia.

Mr. Donald R. Paschal
Current Address: c/o DCI Security Committee
Community Headquarters Building
Washington, D. C. 20505
Telephone: 376-5580

The NIS has unsubstantiated information that Admiral Taylor is
terminally ill.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# FACT SHEET ON LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S SERVICE IN THE MARINE CORPS
(requested in undated letter received June 1, 1978)

C.1. Oswald's level of security clearance was "confidential." On September 11, 1959, a Security Termination Statement (OPNAV FORM 5511-14) was executed by Oswald.

C.2. Oswald was separated from his unit overseas due to hospitalization from October 27, 1957 through November 15, 1957, and again from October 7, 1958 through October 15, 1958.

Oswald did not sail from Yokosuka, Japan, on September 16, 1958. He remained aboard NAS, Atsugi as part of the MAG-11 rear echelon.

C.3. Oswald was confined at hard labor from June 27, 1958 until he rejoined his unit on August 13, 1958.

For further clarification, Oswald received a sentence for 20 days confinement in April 1958 as a result of a Summary Courts Martial. The confinement was suspended for six months. If Oswald's conduct was satisfactory for the period of suspension the sentence would not have been executed. Oswald committed another offense in June 1958, received another Summary Courts Martial and was awarded confinement at hard labor for 28 days. This second offense caused the suspension of the first sentence to be vacated resulting in an accumulation of 48 days confinement at hard labor minus any credit for good behavior.

The offenses in April and June 1958 were those of:

1. Violation of Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice; Violate a lawful general order by having in his possession a privately owned weapon that was not registered.

2. Violation of Article 117, Uniform Code of Military Justice; Wrongfully used provoking words to a Staff Non-Commissioned Officer.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

REC 14 NOV 6

LEE H OSWALD (HARVEY) (ex-USMC)

Date of photo 5870 = 56

EHS HAZELTON Rm. 212

MSG CNO 25/820 = OCT (Caroline) CTA 77978

NW 88326 Docid: 32260796 Page 14

App B

Enclosure


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# CS COPY

DATE: 10-Oct 1963

TO: SEE BELOW

FROM: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

INFO: XX

TO: DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY

SUBJECT: LEE HENRY OSWALD

1. ON 1 OCTOBER 1953 MEXICO REPORTED THAT AN AMERICAN MALE, IDENTIFIED AS LEK OSWALD, CONTACTED THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY INQUIRING WHETHER THE EMBASSY HAD RECEIVED ANY NEWS CONCERNING A TELEGRAM WHICH HAD BEEN SENT TO WASHINGTON. THE AMERICAN WAS DESCRIBED AS APPROXIMATELY 35 YEARS OLD, WITH AN ATHLETIC BUILD, ABOUT SIX FEET TALL, WITH A RECEDING HAIRLINE.

2. IT IS BELIEVED THAT OSWALD MAY BE IDENTICAL TO LEE HENRY OSWALD, BORN ON 18 OCTOBER 1939 IN NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, A FORMER U.S. MARINE WHO DEFECTED TO THE SOVIET UNION IN OCTOBER 1959 AND LATER MADE ARRANGEMENTS THROUGH THE UNITED STATES EMBASSY IN MOSCOW TO RETURN TO THE UNITED STATES WITH HIS RUSSIAN-BORN WIFE, MARINA NIKOLAEVNA PUSAKOVA, AND THEIR.

(CONTINUED)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

CAS:
UNSF
EXT
DATZ:

ROUTING

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CON:

INFO:

PAGE TWO

TO:

INFO:

CITE DIR:

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CHILD.

3. THE INFORMATION IN PARAGRAPH ONE IS BEING DISSEMINATED
   TO YOUR REPRESENTATIVES IN MEXICO CITY. ANY FURTHER INFORMATION
   RECEIVED ON THIS SUBJECT WILL BE FURNISHED YOU. THIS INFORMATION
   IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO THE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE.
   END OF MESSAGE

INFO BASED ON
(IN 36017)

![officer] RELEASING OFFICER

![officers] COORDINATING OFFICERS

![officer] AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 16


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# INFORMATION REPORT
OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE.

CLASSIFICATION
# CONFIDENTIAL
10-21 JULY 1960
FROM:
U.S. NAVAL ATTACHE, CARACAS
Politics...VENEZ
Personal Contact
SERIAL NO.
142-60
DATE OF REPORT
30 JULY 1960
EVALUATION
F-3
REQUEST NO.
SUBJECT:
VENEZUELA/CUBA - Request for assistance by former Cuban army officer

BRIEF (FOR REPORTS OF MORE THAN ONE PAGE, ENTER CAREFUL SUMMARY)
This report covers the visit of two Cuban nationals to the office of the Naval
Attache.

1. Background. On 18 July, The Chief of the U.S. Naval Mission to Venezuela called the Naval Attache and said that two Cubans had approached him in an effort to obtain assistance in getting visas to the U.S. He stated that he had directed them to the office of the Naval Attache.

2. Interview. Shortly thereafter the two men arrived at the CA. The identified themselves as:

Sergio VasiliNosith
Cuba YENEZ
Avenida Urdaneta #11, esquina La Pelota NY.
Telephone 32 07 92
SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED
NOT/RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

He possessed a valid Cuban passport and stated that he was married to a Spanish subject who had a valid Spanish passport. Claims his grandfather was an Iberian and that he is a graduate of Columbia University. Stated he had been in the Cuban diplomatic service briefly and that he presently represented several U.S. firms in Venezuela, primarily in textiles. He was acquainted with CHHAVIIS from business calls he had made at Venezuelan Naval Headquarters selling uniform equipment. In showing his papers he exposed a police type shield. When queried stated that it was an honorary police badge of the New York Police, given to him by Paul Taylor, whom he said was Deputy Police Commissioner, NYC.

and RolandOL BIZARRETA RES

THIS REPORT CONTAINS UNPROCESSED INFORMATION. PLANS AND/OR POLICIES SHOULD NOT BE EVOLVED OR ACTING RECORDED ON THIS INFORMATION
SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED. NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS
CONFIDENTIAL

DISTRIBUTION BY ORIGINATOR
CINCLANTFLT - CSL - CCl 15 - CCSP

DISTRIBUTION BY CMI (only to those addresses proceeded by copy number)

|            |                  |      |       |                   |
| ---------- | ---------------- | ---- | ----- | ----------------- |
| 5 STATE    | CombatDivLant    | OP25 | OP32  | ENCLOSURE         |
| 4 CCI      | ComSubLant       | OP28 | S2IIE | 45                |
| 3 USCG     | ComSTS           | OP31 | FIC   | 51                |
|            | ComalSeaFront    | OP31 | TIE   | 63                |
|            | ComCartaSeafron  | OP33 | FIE   |                   |
|            | ComCoastSeafron  | OP34 | FIS   |                   |
|            | ComTestSeafron   | OP41 | 657   |                   |
| FBI        |                  |      |       |                   |
| OCA        | ComChevJapan     | OP42 | 676   | 1N3W              |
| LEC        | ComCaribSeaFront | OP54 | 64    | CC each ref       |
| FSCG       | ComXarMarianas   | OP55 | 65    | cc each rpt.      |
| Secretary  | ComMidEastfor    | OP56 | A1    |                   |
| Secret     | ComNorLant       | OP58 | KR    | 1 Justice (LiANS) |
|            | ComSTRE          | CP61 | CREs  | ART:0129.1        |
| 62 USMC    | ComSTFE          | CP62 | E34   | 5099408           |
|            | ComTYDFB         | CP62 | EJT   | 37-3              |
| INA HAVANA | ComTHFB          | OP   | R1W   |                   |
| ICGEMFLANT | ComCoastGuard    | OP   | S4    |                   |
|            | ComSubAdm        | OP   | E1    |                   |
|            | CIC              | OP   | 10    |                   |
|            | PIC              | OP   | 14    |                   |


50 AUG-25-1960

Declassified/
Auth.: DIRNIS
Date: 05-09-18. Unit: O2F

![signature]
XEROXES ORIGINAL WITHIN

NW-88326 DocId:32260796 Page 17


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# INFORMATION REPORT

CONFIDENTIAL

FROM:
NA, CARACAS

REPORT NO.
142-60

DATE
30 JULY 1960

He stated that he was a former Cuban Army Captain in the Batista regime and had been a professional soldier - without politics. Had been officer in charge of the Army detachment at the MAIBA HAREZ copper mine, Implnaldo Rio. He left Cuba and came to Venezuela on 5 June 1959. He had legal sized piece of paper with photo and signed by the Cuban Minister of Interior giving him permission to leave Cuba. It was captioned: "Special Passport". Stated he had been jailed 4 times between 1 January, and 5 June 19I2, by CASTRO. ARCACHA stated that he had been arrested and jailed on 29 June during the big cleanup following the attempt on the life of President Betancourt. He was confined for 16 days and released finally on 14 July. ZUBIZARRETA was arrested by DICEPOL on 1 July and confined without charges until 12 July when he was released. At that time he was given a "Salvoconducto" #PL030-8 by the Venezuelan Ministry of Interior dated 15 July, 1960 and expiring 15 January 1961.

ZUBIZARRETA spoke almost no English and it appears that ARCACHA was accompanying him to aid in interpreting if necessary. He said that he feared for his life both in Venezuela and also possible extradition to Cuba where he might be tried and executed although he claimed to have been guilty only of having been in the Army in Batista's time.

Both spoke contemptuously of CASTRO and tried to draw the NA into conversation and controversy. They were taken to the Fish Section of the Consulate and turned over to the Vice Consul.

3. Subsequent Visits. The next morning ZUBIZARRETA appeared with his papers partially filled out and requested assistance in completing them. This was done and he left. Two days later ARCACHA and ZUBIZARRETA returned together, the former claiming that he had additional character and financial references that he wanted to offer to assist ZUBIZARRETA if obtaining his visa more quickly. ARCACHA volunteered that he wanted to warn me about a CASTRO agent who he stated was in charge of intelligence for CASTRO in Venezuela, this person, named Juan Antonio Sola / alleged to be a partner in a trader service that has recently opened in Caracas. He also advised that another Cuban, Cre~ 14, a journalist was *very* dangerous to the U.S. The interview was cut short and they again turned over to the Vice Consul who stated no additional information was needed and that it would probably be a month before information upon which a visa could be issued would be received from Havana and Washington. ZUBIZARRETA expressed fear that he would be picked up and extradited before that time. The NA mentioned that the U.S. was full of exilees and that sincere anti-Castroites could do more good spreading the gospel in Venezuela. This shook both of them considerably and they replied that at present it was almost as dangerous for an anti-Castro on the streets of Caracas as it was on the streets of Havana. They left after being discouraged by the Consul on the prospects of a decision in the near future. ARCACHA did not appear too worried for himself and a check proved that he had a valid tourist visa issued to him on 18 November, 1959. His wife, being a Spanish subject, is going to more considerably more difficulty.

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED
NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 88326: Docld: 32260796 Page 18


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# INFORMATION REPORT

CONFIDENTIAL

FROM: HA, CARACAS

REPORT NO: 112-60.

DATE: 30 JULY 1960

Source Information: Personal Contact

Preparing and Forwarding Officer's Comments: Local CAS files show nothing on LOLL and VARONA. The principal owner of the armored car service referred to is a Pan American pilot, ROWE (fun) and friend of the Army attache. He has one or two Cuban partners and recent inquiry reveals that their original company in Havana has been expropriated by CASTRO. They state that DOLL was a former employee of theirs but was released some time ago.

Prepared and Forwarded:

![signature]

ROBERT E. HUSE
CAPT, USA

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED
NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 88326 DocId:32260706 Page 19


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

UNIT:
EXT:
DATE: 23 OCT 1953

[] INDEX 30 1
[x] NO INDEX
[] FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO : DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY

FROM: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
CONE:
INFO: XX

CS COPY

Oct 63 19.10z
24 Oct 63
DEF
ROUTINE

CITE DIR: *7978

SUBJECT: LEE HENRY OSWALD

REFERENCE IS MADE TO CIA OUT TELEXTE NO. 74873, DATED 10 OCTOBER 1963, REGARDING POSSIBLE PRESENCE OF SUBJECT IN MEXICO CITY.

IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FORWARD TO THIS OFFICE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE TWO COPIES OF THE MOST RECENT PHOTOGRAPHS YOU HAVE OF SUBJECT. WE WILL FORWARD THEM TO OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN MEXICO, WHO WILL ATTEMPT TO DETERMINE IF THE LEE OSWALD IN MEXICO CITY AND SUBJECT ARE THE SAME INDIVIDUAL.

END OF MESSAGE

BASED ON:
(IF 40357)

Document Number 10-6
for FOIA Review on APR 1976

CS COPY
COORDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
NW 88326 DocId: 32260796 Page 20 Copy No.:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

FACT SHEET ON RADIOGRAPH REQUEST

With respect to the May 9, 1978, request for access to radiographs taken the week of November 22, 1963, at Bethesda Naval Hospital by the same unit used to take radiographs at President Kennedy's autopsy, hospital personnel have reported that none of the radiographs are annotated to indicate the particular instrument used; thus, no means are available to determine which radiographs were taken on the same unit as that used during the President Kennedy autopsy. Additionally, the radiographs unit used during the aforementioned autopsy is no longer in use and after a search could not be located.

NW 88326 Docld:32260796 Page 21


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)