# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10343

RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 3

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 1

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10343

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 03/13/78
PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
EWING, MICHAEL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32243309 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                       |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Michael Ewing                              | 3/13/78                                                                              |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                       |
| 527-96-7881                                | Appointment                                                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | Salary Adjustment                                                                    |
| Assassinations                             | Title Change                                                                         |
|                                            | Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                 |
|                                            | Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business) |
|                                            | Specify Date                                                                         |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title    | Gross Annual Salary* |
| ----------------- | -------------------- |
| Senior Researcher | $18,000.00           |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level__________ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date March 14, 19 78.

LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
CHAIRMAN
(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)
(Type or print name and title of above official)
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________ ID __________
Monthly Annuity $___________.00 as of __________ Benefits __________
Payroll __________ (Revised: August 1 1977)
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243309 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

☑ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

☐ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

![signature of employee]
Signature of Employee

March 13, 1978
Date

NW 88326
DocId:32243309 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel 4.2.1 I.C.M.

DATE: 13 March 1978

RE: Mr. Michael Ewing

Please be advised that effective Monday, March 13, 1978,
Mr. Michael Ewing has accepted the position of Senior Researcher
with the John F. Kennedy Task Force/HSCA. His effective starting
salary will be $18,000.00.

If you have any questions concerning this matter, please
contact me at your convenience.

ICM:j


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)