# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10335
RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 3
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10335

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE: 08/01/78
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
DI PAOLO, PAUL A.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:
Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Paul A. DiPaolo                   | 12/31/78       |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 354-42-1661                     | Appointment Salary Adjustment Title Change Termination (At close of business on effective date) Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business_ _Specify Date_) |

Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee

Assassinations

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
|                |                      |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.956_of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number.If applicable, Level. Step.

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date January 2 1979

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name and title of above official) (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN
(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code ID

Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of Benefits

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee Payroll (Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326
DocId:32243301 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Paul A. DiPaolo                   | August 1, 1978 |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action |
| ------------------------------- | -------------- |
| 354-42-1661                     | Appointment    |

| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |
| ------------------------------------------ |
| Assassinations                             |

*   Salary Adjustment
*   Title Change
*   Termination (At close of business on effective date)
*   Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business.

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title    | Gross Annual Salary* |
| ----------------- | -------------------- |
| Research Attorney | $26,000.00           |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1.  Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.
2.  Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number __________ If applicable, Level ________ Step __________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 1, 1978

LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN

(if appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official) (Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

| Office of Finance use only:                     |
| ----------------------------------------------- |
| Office Code ________________________________    |
| Monthly Annuity $______________.00 as of ______ |
| Copy for Initiating Office or Committee         |

| ID ___________              |
| Benefits ___________        |
| Payroll ___________          |
| (Revised: August 1, 1977)   |

NW 88326
DocId:32243301 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel

DATE: August 1, 1978

RE: Mr. Paul A. DiPaolo

Please be advised that Mr. Paul A. DiPaolo has joined the Select Committee staff as a Research Attorney. Mr. DiPaolo's primary responsibility will be to assist in the preparation of the final report.

His effective starting date will be August 1, 1978, and his starting salary will be $26,000.00 per annum.

If you have any questions concerning this matter, please contact me at your convenience.

ICM:j


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)