# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10482
RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
DocId:32239490 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page: 1

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10482

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 02/22/78
PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
MCHARGH, KENNETH

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Kenneth S. HeHargh                | 12/31/78       |

| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 301-46-2531                                | Appointment                                                                           |
|                                            | Salary Adjustment                                                                     |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | Title Change                                                                          |
| Assassinations                             | Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                  |
|                                            | Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business_. |
|                                            | Specify Date                                                                          |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority- H. Re956 of 95th_Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_ If applicable, Level Step_______

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date January 2 1979

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name and title of above official) (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
CHAIRMAN

(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

| Office of Finance use only: | ID                        |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------- |
| Office Code                 | Benefits                  |
| Monthly Annuity $           | Payroll                   |
| .00 as of                   | (Revised: August 1, 1977) |

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239490 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Kenneth S. McHargh                         | 2/22/78                                                                                        |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                                 |
| 301-46-2531                                | ☑ Appointment                                                                                  |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ◻ Salary Adjustment                                                                            |
| Assassinations                             | ◻ Title Change                                                                                 |
|                                            | ◻ Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                         |
|                                            | ◻ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business________) |
|                                            | Specify Date                                                                                   |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
| Staff Attorney | $27,000.00           |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ◻ Standing Committee: Staff ◻ Clerical or ◻ Professional.

2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority - H. Res. 879 of 95th Congress.

3. ◻ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level__________ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date 2/22 19 78

____________________________________________________
(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)
____________________________________________________
(Type or print name and title of above official)

_____________________________________________________
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
Louis Stokks
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
_____________________________________________________
Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
_____________________________________________________
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________

Monthly Annuity $___________.00 as of __________

ID__________

Benefits__________

Payroll__________

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee
NW 88326
Docld:32239490 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

☑ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

☐ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

![Date]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel I.C.M.

DATE: February 14, 1978

RE: Mr. Kenneth S. McHargh

This memorandum is to advise you that effective February 21, 1978, Mr. Kenneth S. McHargh has accepted the position of Staff Attorney with the Martin Luther King Task Force. His effective starting salary will be $27,000.00.

Your full cooperation will be greatly appreciated in familiarizing Ken with staff procedures and welcoming him aboard.

301-46-2531

ICM:j

NW 88326
Docld:32239490 Page 6


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)