JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 10/2/201

Agency Information
AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10094-10459
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 011475

Document Information
ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: USLOV, SERGY ALEXANDROVECH
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 08/22/1978
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS: CIA
USLOV, SERGY ALEXANDROVECH
OSWALD, LEE; RUSSIAN PERIOD
GOLOVACHEV, PAVEZ A.
DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/05/1996
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Box 207.

> Released under the John F. Kennedy
> Assassination Records Collection Act of
> 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
> 88326 Date: 2025

v9.1
NW 88326 DocId:32255901 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1. Identifying Information:

Name: Sergy Alexandrovech Date: 8/22/78

Address: 414 Avenue N #6D Place: Residence

City/State: Brooklyn, New York

Date of Birth: 11/19/49-Minsk

Social Security: 075-60-6025 Spouse:

Children:

2. Physical Description:

Height Color Eyes: Grey Hair: Blk

Weight Special Characteristics:

Ethnic Group: Russian

3. Personal History:

a. Present Employment: Unemployed

Address

Telephone

b. Criminal Record

   1. Arrests

   2. Convictions

4. Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name: Araism Linevnabor Slov - Mother

Address: 414 Avenue N #6D

Brooklyn, N.Y.

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator: Clifford A. Fenton, Jr.

Date

NW 88326 DocId:32255901 Page 2 Form #4-B


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# KENNEDY

## SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name Sergy Alexandrovech Uslov

Date August 22, 1978Time 3:00 p.m.

Address 414 Avenue N #6 D

Place Residence

Brooklyn, New York

Interview: On August 22, 1978, Sergy A. Uslov was interviewed at his residence relative to an allegation that, through a friend, Lee Harvey Oswald stated he could make money if he killed the President. Uslov's mother, Araism Uslov, 55 years, lives with him; however, was not present at the time of the visit. He is currently unemployed, having left his job as a packer/salesman for Fada Industries, 1201 Broadway, New York, New York, (212)679-4280, approximately two weeks ago. He presently is hopeful of purchasing a Madallion Taxi-cab in New York City.

Uslov stated that he arrived in the United States via TWA on March 23, 1977, having arrived from Russia through Austria and Italy (Alien Record #A21703170; Permit #0669968). His departure from Russia was accomplished through subterfuge. His mother was of Jewish ancestry and both he and his mother were granted their request to go to Israel. Since such travel to Israel necessitates first stopping in Italy, upon arrival Uslov and his mother contacted the U.S. Embassy and were per-

Interviewer Signature

Typed Signature Clifford A. Fenton, Jr.

Date transcribed 9-8-78

By: br Form #4-A

NW 88326 DocId:32255901 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# Sergy Alexandrovech Uslov Interview
Page 2.

mitted to enter the United States. The CIA contacted Uslov via telephone approximately two months later. A meeting was arranged and he was debriefed as to his knowledge of Russian life, KGB, etc. At this point, Uslov stated that he would shoot himself if he ever had to return to Russia.

After sixteen years of age when continuous education ceased, Uslov worked at several odd jobs while intermittently attending the Institute of History and of Foreign Languages. He speaks German, Russian, White Russian and English.

Uslov stated that he had written a manuscript concerning Lee Harvey Oswald; a manuscript written mostly from information he had elicted from Pavez A. Golovachev in Minsk, the U.S.S.R. Uslov first met Golovachev through a friend, V. Egor, in 1965. After the casual meeting, Egor told him that Golovachev was a good friend of Lee Harvey Oswald. Several years later, Uslov next met Golovachev while he was drinking and Golovachev stated that he did know Oswald and that his wife Marina was his girlfriend before their marriage. Sometime in 1975, while in Golovachev's apartment in Moscow, an intoxicated Golovachev supplied much informative data relative to Oswald.

Golovachev explained to him that he and Lee Harvey Oswald worked together at a radio factory in Moscow and were close friends. Oswald was a very nervous person; nervous


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# Sergy Alexandrovech Uslov Interview
Page 3.

about everything, laughed like a crazy man, and liked his wife "very, very much." Further, he had stated that Oswald saw how life was really like in Russia and was very disenchanted. Oswald wanted a lot and the Government "did everything." He even tried Russian writing once and failed, as usual. Then he expressed the desire to return to America with his wife, also a wish of hers. Golovachev asked, "What are you going to do in America?" Golovachev was inquiring as to how was he going to earn money as he did not have a talent for anything. Oswald replied, "Don't worry. There are many ways to make good money." Oswald stated that he could get "good money," for example, by killing the President in a good way. Oswald further stated that "you don't know America." The people would make you a hero; they'd write books, magazine articles, even make movies about you." Further, Oswald implied that he most likely would not receive the money personally but that the money would go to his wife.

Golovachev further told Oslov that because of his contact with Oswald, immediately following the assassination of President Kennedy and identification of Oswald, the KGB took him into custody. After hours of questioning, the KGB searched his apartment and took everything pertaining to Oswald, which included photographs and papers.

NW 88326 Docld:32255901 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Sergy Alexandrovech Uslov Interview
Page 4.

It is surmised that as Golovachev became garrulous while drinking, the KGB discovered that he was still in possession of a group photograph depicting Lee, Marina and Golovachev among other people. Accordingly, sometime in 1971 or 1972, the KGB took the photo.

Uslov explained that he wrote the complete story in Russian and submitted it to the CIA for transmittal to the HSCA. They advised that it be translated to English. In November of 1977, he sent the manuscript to Radio Freedom on 42nd Street in New York City for translation and to be forwarded to the Committee. It is his belief that he was contacted by the HSCA as a result of reading his manuscript. He is presently attempting to locate his copy, which is in Russian, for our perusal.

After giving a full dissertation on life in Russia, Uslov requested that his identity remain anonymous. He wanted to give his information only to the HSCA.

NW 88326 Docld:32255901 Page 6


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)