JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 10/6/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10106-10011
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 014138

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: STEELE, CHARLES
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 04/13/1978
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: OSWALD, LEE, POST RUSSIAN PERIOD, POLITICAL AND
SUBVERSIVE
ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/31/1996

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Box 251.



Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88326 Date: 2025


v9.1
NW 88326 Docld:32261442 Page 1
1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1. Identifying Information:

Name Charles Stule, Jr

Address 2119 Selma St

City/State New Orleans, La

Date 4-13-78

Place Residence

Date of Birth 11-5-43

Social Security 438-60-8716

M or S M

Spouse

Children

2. Physical Description:

Height

Color Eyes

Hair

Weight

Special Characteristics

Ethnic Group

3. Personal History:

a. Present Employment: IBEW Local #130

Address 1806 Canal St - New Orleans, La

Telephone

b. Criminal Record

   1. Arrests

   2. Convictions

4. Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s):

Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator William Granse, Jr

Date 4-19-78


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# KENNEDY

# SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME Charles Steele, Jr.

Date 4-13-78 Time 7 p.m.

Address 2119 Selma St.

Place Residence

New Orleans, LA

Interview: (Synopsis)

Charels Steele passed out Pro-Cuba leaflets with LHỌ. Subject refused to answer questions concerning his knowledge of LHO prior to passing out leaflets on Canal St. He states he was inside of unemployment office on Canal Street when he was approached by LHO and was offered $5.00 to pass out leaflets. He accepted the offer and after passing out the first batch, read the leaflets, stopped, collected his money and left. The subject said he didn't know the second male who was assisting,-- describes him as, white male, 20, light brown hair, medium height and build, and brown eyes. The subject refuses to answer when asked if he saw LHO again.

Subject states he was not a member of any organiza- tion during this period. He identified photos #5, Clay Shaw and #57, LHO. The photo book supplied by the committee is numbered in sequential order from 1-110 with #72/73 missing.

Subject requests copy of his Warren Commission testimony.

Interviewer

William Brown (Signature)

(Name)

Date Transcribed 4/21/78 by cs

(Ini

NW 88326 Docld:32261442 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)