# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10362
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326
Docld:32243328 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Date:08/20/93
Page:1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10362

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 05/12/78

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
GREEN, CHARLOTTE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32243328 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action.

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Charlotte Green                            | 7/31/78                                                                                                             |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                                                      |
| 148-52-9861                                | ☐ Appointment                                                                                                       |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ☐ Salary Adjustment                                                                                                 |
| Assassinations                             | ☐ Title Change                                                                                                      |
|                                            | ☑ Termination (Aí close of business on effective date)                                                              |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business________ Specify Date________) |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 956_of 95th Congress.
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_________ If applicable, Level_________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 10 19 78

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN

(Type or print name and title of above official) (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code________

Monthly Annuity $_________.00 as of ________

ID ________

Benefits ________

Payroll ________

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1 1977)
NW 88326
DocId:32243328 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------- |
| Charlotte Green                            | 5/12/78        |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action |
| 148-52-9861                                |                |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |                |
| Assassinations                             |                |

*   Appointment
*   Salary Adjustment
*   Title Change
*   Termination (At close of business on effective date)
*   Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business______Specify Date______)

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
| Summer Intern  | $6240.00             |

*If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_______If applicable, Level______Step______

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date May 22 1978

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN

(Type or print name and title of above official) (Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of

ID

Benefits

Payroll

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243328 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Certificate of Relationship/Nonrelationship to
Any Current Member of Congress

Date May 12, 1978

To: House Select Committee on Assasinations
(Employing Authority)

I certify that I do not have any of the following relationships to any
current Member of Congress.

father nephew sister-in-law
mother niece stepfather
son husband stepmother
daughter wife stepson
brother father-in-law stepdaughter
sister mother-in-law stepbrother
uncle son-in-law stepsister
aunt daughter-in-law half-brother
first cousin brother-in-law half-sister

I certify that I am the _____________________________________ of the
(Relationship)
Honorable ____________________________________________________
(Name of Member to whom related)

Charloth A. Green
(Employee)

GPO 16-78695-3

NW 88326
DocId:32243328 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel

DATE: May 22, 1978

RE: Charlotte Green

Please be advised that effective Friday, May 12,
1978, Ms. Charlotte Green joined the Committee staff as
a summer intern. Her effective starting salary will be
$6240.00 per annum.

If you have any questions concerning this matter,
please contact me at your convenience.

ICM:j

NW 88326
DocId:32243328 Page 6


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)