180-10143-10100 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

meticulous files.

memo to Legat at same time as cable.

10143-10100


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Goldsmith

3/6/63 Notes re Hardway summary of M.C. tapes, transcripts, & cables. - preexamination

SECRET

2. ↳ transcriptions generally are summaries rather than verbatim.

2. previously transcribed material are not in the materials that Hardway examined.

3. marginal notations are common

4. Spanish transcripts are of poor quality. - Why would there even be any Spanish transcripts.

5. transcripts for 9/15 + 9/16/63 are missing. Holmes' explanation is that [intercept] activity two may have been shut down on weekends.

translated

Spanish

transcription

6. 9/27/63

1. M.U. seeking visa to Odessa

2. Same person call back at 10:37 a.m.

3. another call 1:25

LHO 4:05 pm 4. Duran to Soviet emb. - Conversation in Spanish re LHO, who was then at Cuban emb. - apparent that LHO was billing at Soviet emb

LHO 4:26 pm 5. Sou. emb → Duran re LHO; (LHO still at emb.)

Win Scott sought to id persons push underlined in red;

7. 9/28/63

as applies to 9/62

LHO 6. Duran → Sou. emb; LHO talks to S.O (LHO to go to Sou emb)

8. 10/1/63 Approved that LHO was billing at Sou emb

? 1. 10:31 a.m. - possibly LHO calling

for info re teleg. from Wash. mil allons

LHO 2. 10:45 - LHO to ground in reference to teleg. - LHO identifies Gavell

[For previously transubed]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

9. 10/13/63 Call to four emb re viva
   0002452 [Equivalently transscribed]

10. 10/11/63 # 6344 - re Phillips - Obtain
    10/13/63 DIR 72527 - re phillips.

11. Correct dates of photos of 10/11 + 10/12 or 10/12+10/14

12. 10/8/63 cable 64TS MCS HQ repts LHO visit absence of routing slip on cable

13. 10/10/63 BIR 74830 MLS M ne background.
    LHO & interested MCS re LHO & passing.
    Info to all agencies equally.
    12/12/63 DIR di contind onenes des nipti

O. What was pruebanan
Comppt?

14. Scottis vuggestion of a @ file on CHO.

15. 10/10/63 - HQ dissemination to other agencies, re CHO
    #54673

16. 10/15/63 MLJ 6534 requesting pouched photo of CHO

17. 10/16/63 Scott - No response + memo to Mann, Eat re Osthir cable
    LHO ! no mention of visar aspect.

18. Obtain Suit Contacts file - TOP file - all date cable 1:12
    Absence of wiring vias. on some of cable


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

0002453

SECRET
15? 16th PARAPHRASE?

[LIAISON] routing - transcript, etc./time T.P.T. marginal notes

[unilateral] operation

[PENETRATION] Agents.

First trans. + action (consult?)-

Post ASS'N:
Nature of checks. - DIR 84886

Mexi 7023 erasure/date correc.
"not recorded this date"

7024 - All info reported
(prior to 27th calls, etc.)
by [H.M.]

[Hunt Bishop. P.T. Importance


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRETI

7025 - report of 9/28 +10/1
conv. by A. G.

0082454
7028 - cal [(Mexican)] pick-up of 9/28

when first realized photos
~ LHO

7033 reports all calls.

7034 recheck of all photos.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

I General.
A. duties
B. typical day.

II People.
list

III the survellance ops.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

2/14118

SECRET

08892456 Briefing on 201's.

Bill Donley - former op off.
Mike Levy
[Lee Carroll]
Virginia Jones.

basis for opening interest -
1. operational interest
   a. recruitment (access) (trace)
   b. tracking
   c. CIS (threat)

generally - amassed material in indexes brought together into 201. - actual process of opening only takes an hour or so.

* When MC report came in in 10/9 there was a response - too is there a document re this trace?

opened by:
A. case officer.

Mick secenario - judgement call by officer - there may not led a 201 opened event though a reliable source suggest counter intelligence threat type profile.

most 201's are on people who are being considered for recruitment.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

-2-

C002457

SECRET

MH: ~ necessarily open 201 but would go into an index. Info would be disseminated.

There are criteria for opening high level commies. 3 Handbook recruitees. usually opened by operations (desk) officer.

REASEARCH
↓ 2 days?
desk (dECISION)

There are ops from HQ in which case the CO is the desk officer.

The 201 is iondigenous to DDO.

PRQ part I -Required for ClEAGANCE. → automatic 201. Part II - extended @ assesments, detail bkgrd analysis, operational projections, OS has no need for Part II which is kept in 201.

MAINLY IN FIELD. age essentially correct an bifurcated files. RULE central cand reference between them. Index check should lead to both.

201 - true NAme- PRQ I + reference to second. seperate file PRQ II


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

-3-

0002458

201 mainly bio - try hand not to run operations out of 201's.

reason for opening ~
necessarily it.
would be a reference to a cable or document.

201 assigned chronologically as the name comes in.

would have his picture if no one could be gotten - not required. - would go right in.

there should be a table of contents list on a 201- computerized.

green list - info on subject compiled as a result of signal/communications intelligence.

[State cover can go from "fig leaf" to fully integrated.]

project files - Policy Coordinator Staff - coord. w other agencies - may also be a project file on desk if serious agency involvement.

graphics file. - do obtain a great deal of photos of things like ships. - DDI if positive


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

- 4 SECRET

0002459

intelligence value + may be disseminated.

might be photos of individuals of prominence

graphics file not in DDO. Biographics registry in DDI
OCR-Office of Central Reference.

POL - part of compartmentation system refers to cable traffic

opened by one of top traffic officers in DDO.

crypt can't be assigned
a 201.

if got into a debriefing of handling a defecter to us then that is automatic
criteria bonus on opening.

a report of fact of defection alone wouldn't be enough.

547A form /1896 form.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)