# 1.

NOTES

Box 30
Fldr 62
Doc. 1

[Dan Neiscuin] interview
8/29/ 10:00

letter

Charles R. Roistade (ps.)

present position: CI staff
C/ops card. branch
east Asia & Africa

1963- Viet Nam - dep. ch.
Sp. ops. branch.

+ HQ-[NVN]/CI desk.

CAMBODIA

DCOS [Burma] 68-70

70 [Thailand] DCO/ext. ops.
71-72 $ Asst for narcotics
+ dangerous drugs.

then to "WARCOg" HQ liaison
on Daring 7/83-7/75

1975-> CI staff /50B -> sensitive
CI matters.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

There
ae
Dan Neiscuirs
initals

2

expertise in East Asian
&

inhouse investigations:
never did any of them.

did work on an "Oswald
Task Force"

FOIA.
zou 3 suits late 9 or 10/75.
info had to be processed
& C/CIS decided to have
ops off do review.

DN one as well as a
primary contact @
2 investigators from sse.
which was going on at
same time
"much the same as Russ
Holmes is doing right now"

no research & analysis
that he was aware of.

md CI/SIG - heard of ->
apparently component


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

(3)

under angleton before
(ON)03 joined staff
never clear what did
"tightly held compartmented
component"
may have delt @ codes
* ciphers - there is still
  a "residual branch" in
  CIS that deals @ that

CI/BIG was part of @R+A.

"D" was (is) component
that deals @ NSA - all
matters
Station "close support
team" monitored commo
per NSA requirements

D had responsibility on
agency's part to respond
to NSA requirements

seperate from CIS.

TSD -> support for tech.
ops also seperate.

VN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

④

was not "Special Intelligence"
was "Investigations!"

if SIG worked codes
I would have had high
level liaison @ D.
+ 31G may have been
  tasked by D for things
  that required CI knowledge

pure supposition.

Ray Roccor or Russ Holmes
would know best about
SIG.

SIG would have opened
201 cause LHO defector.

only 2 pieces of paper
Agency originated prior
to eson.

a year to open? Doesn't
know if unusual - he
would have opened in
59 on first hearing. Could
have been a soft file


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

5. 
but never heard of consolidation of files when Rocky commission looked into it.

Micktenbaugh "hits a note" but cann't recall.

Didn't know annie wrote History.

only photo he recalls in file is mmm.
ID'S CE237.
doesn't recall series

Bustos doesn't ring a bell

Robert Wall
Bill Perkins
(Robert Litviak)(ph)

about 15 ou 20 worked on FOIA santajation
LEN BREA (ph)
Tony Getia (ph) Sileo
[KEN JASPER]

Paul Hartman - Procca's "honcho" on Investigation


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

6. 
material withheld from 55C - about 10 document but were shown to them on specific request relevant sources + methods - identity of agents.

met Rocca twice - CAN'T RECAll when. - SAT in on A 55C sessions @ him.

never have been able to locate delineation agree. has never heard of it but "from his lips."

Rocca's memos: interesting theory in sense Castro was trying to give us a signal. But wondered why Rocca wanted ten years to advance it.

Swenson: no Bells.

Piccolo - okay memory - sometimes fuzzy.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)