# Periodic File Summary
(one component)

Alexis Davison: A Nedelya article named one Malcom Toon as the supervisor of CIA operations in the Moscow Embassy.

Daniel Carswell - after his return from Cuba in April of 1963. His travel was restricted until August 1963. Carswell is 6', 180 lbs., has grey eyes and brown hair. He was imprisoned with Eustace H. Danburnt and Edmund R. Jaransky.

Luis Posada:

1960 - member of the Frente Revolucionario Jose A Echevarria in Cuba.

1961 - on February 25 Posada sought political asylum in the Argentine Embassy in Mexico City. He arrived in the U. S. on February 28. In April of 1961 he was trained for the Bay of Pigs


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

- 2 -

SECRET
in Sautemala.
In October 1961 he took a
job with the Firestone
Rubber Company, Akran
Ohio. He stayed at this
job until March of 1963.

1963-On February 21, 1963
the CIA yout into motion
the beausacratic machinery
necessary for an interview
of Posada. In March of
1963 Posada joined the
United States Army. He
served. a Fort Benning
Seorgia in the Battalion
2 nd Platoon (weapons),
Co. B, 1st Battalion, 29th
Infantry, Brigade 197.
In June he divorced his
wife, Maria Concepcion
Castaneda Napoles in Chicago.
(PDOB: 1931, Cardenas, Martanzas,
Cuba; married 1955; last
known address: 6540 Seville
St., Apt. C, Hunington Park, CA.)
In August the CIA granted
permission for an intensiv


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

3-

0002332

NOTIFIED THE INTERVIEWING Component
THAT THE FBI had no objection to THE INTERVIEW.

Posada claims that he joined JURE at some point during this year.

1964. Posada left the U.S. Army in March with the rank of 2nd lieutenant. In September he claims he was employed by the Pan Am eterminating Co. 275 S.W. 6th St, Miami. He also claims to have been representing JURE in the Dominican Republic in 1964.

1965. In April Posada is in Miami working as an autobody repairman when he was recruited as a training instructor. a name check returned positive from FBI, ONI, I+NS, the Adjutant Generals Office and the Army Chief of Staff for Intelligence. The FBI reportedly has evidence


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

- 4 -

0002333

of Posada's involvement in a plot to kill Castro in this year.

NOTE: Posada claims to have been the chief instructor for JURE campes for three months in an unspecified year in the early 60's.

Additional info:

1. AKA: Luis Clemente Carriles
   Bambi Posada Carriles
   Bambi Carriles
   Julian Posada Carriles
   Julian Carriles

2. He has, at times, listed as references:

   Carlos Porno, 395 E. Tallmadge, Akron, Ohio.

   Antonio Garcia, 3604 S.W. 26th Terrace, Miami, Fla.

   Segundo Ortes, 685 Carnegie Ave, Akron, Ohio.

   Dick Patterson SEORBI, Akron, Ohio.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET
-5-
0002334

3. SS # 265-72-1345

4. US Army #C-2312445

5. US Army dossier #265-72-1345

6. Posada associates was in contact with one "Lefty" Rosenthal in Miami.

7. Posada claims to be an excellent Marksman.

Cesear Diosdado

DOB 8/16/21, Horado, Texas.
With Customs. He served as a source for the CIA. The CIA reimbursed his salary to customs. Employed in 1961. Has allegedly been involved in gun running since 1957. Allegedly sold guns to a group planning an invasion of Haiti in 1966. In 1967 Jose Ricardo Rabel Nunez told a press conference in Cuba that Diosdado was a CIA recruiting agent. Diosdado was the undercover agent who busted Richmond C. Harper in 1972


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

in a guns for heroin deal.

David A. Phillips:
(two components)

2/1/51 to 2/28/51 contract agent
1/25/52 " 7/31/53 "
3/4/54 " 1/31/55 employee
4/1/55 " 2/6/56 staff employee
2/7/56 to 8/13/58 staff agent
8/19/58 to 3/13/60 Cont. Ag. (Cuba)
3/14/60 to retire. Staff employ.
1961-1966 Mexico

in 1963 was in charge of Cuban Operations.

Mitchell L WerBell III held provisional operational approval from 8/4/59 to 10/14/59. He has been characterized as a con man. In Oct and Sept 1962, he did try to get several Latin American governments to recognize Cuban govern-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

-7-

0002336

ipement in exile. He hap
ON OCCASSION
regularly volunteered
information to the CIA
and has often impersonated
CIA officers.
Associates in Cuban Affairs:
Edward Mekill
Edward Lewis Bankston
Chester Gray AKA Zochowski.
Rolando Masferrar
Bruce Arman Baker
11379 President Drive N.E.
Blaine Village, Minn.
Robert Bayard
Walter Joseph Meckem (Mackem)
PDOB 12/13/37, Omaha, Neb.
2609 N. Potomac
Arlington, VA.
Steve Van Cleave
Edward Marger
Paul Bethel
Charles Hall
Robert K. Brown.

SECRET
Werbell's POA was cancelled because
the CIA determined he was trying
to use the agency for personal
reasons (more detail in 201 summarys)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

893-8100

0002337 SECRET

# HARDWAY

## 05 - HUNT

### 1

1949 joined CIA PPS/OPC

Was in Wienna in late 40's with Economic Coop. Admin. where before joining CIA.

12/11/50 resigned to accept position @ state

There is no indication of his rejoining the Agency but there are clearances for his novels.

1951- "The violent ones"

1951- "Whisper Her Name" while DCOS under State Cover. WHD

1952- "Paris VIII"

1953- 15 in Mexico - returns HQ in Feb. for reassignment

1953- "Darkness on the hand" rejected coz racism - used pseudonym? by Edwards

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

0002338 -2 Hunt

05 withdrew denial when it learned that Hunt would be reassigned to Latin America.

1954 travelling in Europe!
JAPAN.

1957 assigned 3/1/57 to Montevideo, Uruguay - some kind of stir before assignment-re: lost cables. Hunt was polygraphed.

Skips to:

6/18/65 assigned to Madrid as an IO.

1966 working @ NATO intelli.

1970 memo on Give us this day. Bill Buckley was pushing it. Holt Rinehart declined to publish coz "too controversial."
ibid Arlington House

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

C002339

- 3 -
  HUNT

Hunt left Montevideo in 1960

was in Cuba 12/7-15/56

Mexico 12/50 to 3/55

9/27/60 Hunt given alias "Edward J.Hamilton"

In 6/63 a po box was opened in D.C. for Hunt under the alias. (Woodridge Station)

10/60 assigned JMWAVE

box cancelled 6/65.

1970. retired.

7-60 to 10-60 assigned M.CS
1/57 to 6/60 Montevideo.

7/60 to 3/61 was @ JMATE in MC & Coral Gables

SECRET

![Exclamation point at the bottom of the page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

0002340

-4-
HUNT

Twicker compromised on 12/2/60 & cancelled.

was assigned "Terence & Crabanac."

- was COS in Montevideo

- President Nandone of Uruguay asked Eisenhower not to transfer Hunt.

- Envelope:
  "1960 Personal Information re: Auto accident, desire to stayon in Uruguan assignment and work related problems;"

June 27, 1960

6/27/60 Hunt TOY to Cuba then to Mexico City on PCS under Commercial cover.

both JMARC
Duties

- So for JMARC was Joseph Hangan.

- Hunt was polit. action officer, representative to FRD in Cuba Mexico.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

(002341

-3-

HUNT

6/23 memo from to
Dep. Dir. Sec.; From
DD'S (Inves. & oper.sup).
calls Hunt "something
of a character and
free wheeler" Hunt
wants a gun + a
automobile
convertible for use
in M.C. - Haugan
would be happy if
Hunt used on
project.

Tracy Barnes denies
pushing Hunt for
position - says hes
just an interested
friend.

J.C. King informed of
Security's reservations.

To Chief SRS/OS
From
Chief
RB/SRS/OS
1/61 O.S. concerned memo dated 24 JAN 1961
coz
Hunt is giving info
on operations to
Uraguana officials
"Subject has been a problem
in the past and apparently


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

0002342

-6-

SECRET

Hunt

continues to be a "problem."

May 1962 Hunt reassigned
to DDP/DODS

Facilities branch

Research & Publications

D.C.

Chief of branch or Section
stayed on covert funding.

9/21/62 military cover
for Hunt established
with U.S. Army Element
Composite Operations
Group. (8738)

11/15/61

Hunt reassigned to:
DDP/CA staff

Plans & Research Group
Evaluation Branch
D.C.

C.F. to C.F.

from DDP/WH/Bc4/Temporary

SECRET Documents indicate that
Hunt knew Richard Ober
as far back as early

![A black line]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

0002343

SECRET

-7-

HUNT

50's - worked operation
with him in 9/61
(approved by Helms)

1/17/62 reassigned
DDP/CA Staff
Office of the Chief
CF to CF.
2121-1000-1000

ENVELOPE:
"Re Investigation + Appraisal
Info dtd 11/62 + 2/63"

Sanitized version:

11/62 Hunt requests that
wife be allowed to
work at Spanish
Embassy. Security
disapproved. - big to do,
several documents.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

0002344

-8-
Hunt

Memorandum for the Record:
Subject: Procurement of Intelligence by Mrs. Dorothy L. Hunt.

1. On 25 February 1963, I delivered to Mr. W. Lloyd George, Chief, FI, thermo-fax copies of a memorandum and a letter of transmittal dated 18 and 20 February respectively. Both were prepared by Ambassadors Antonio Garrigues for Prince Stanislas Radziwill and taken to the latter in New York by Alfonso de Borbon, 2d Secretary of the Spanish Embassy in Washington.

2. The purport of the material was to enlist the aid of Radziwell in (a) persuading the President to visit Madrid during his next European trip, and (b) conveying to the President the views of

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

9

Hunt

Ambassador Samiques regarding U.S.- Latin American relations.

3. Mr. George regarded the material to sensitive to be handled by routine means, and decided to show it only to Mr. Helms.

4. On 27 February 1963, Mr. George telephoned me to say that he had just shown the material to Mr. Helms who speculated whether he ought not take it to the White House at once. Mr. George demurred, pointing out the sensitivity of the source (my wife), whereupon Mr. Helms indicated that nothing should be done with the material until Mr. George returned from a Far East trip and could consider the matter further.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

0002346

-10-

HUNT

5. Mr. George then asked Mr. Helms whether my wife should register under the Foreign Agents Registration Act, and Mr. Helms said that under the circumstances she absolutely should not.

signed H. H.

memo F.R. This upset Agency because "Mrs. Hunt is engaging in intelligence collection in the United States - without any official sanction".
4/18/63

OS objects but C/FIS shows operational interest.

Hunt apparently @ DODS at linave

Searge + Helms decide to have her stay on & so inform security

10 MAY 63


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

0002347

SECRET HUNT

1964 Hunt writes William
Buckley's show on
Invisible Government
entitled: "Hate CIA week!"
Letter from Buckely
to Hunt attached to
article. Cover sheet
(Routing & Record) says:
"The following attached
draft column by Bill
Buckley will appear
in 75 U.S. newspapers...
The background of this
placement is the fact,
that Buckeley worked
for me as a Staff Agent
in Mexico 1950-51 and
we have remained close
friends."
Copies to Helms & DCI.
6/1/64.

Re - Investigation Program
WAIVED for Hunt.

7/9/64 reassigned DOP/DDO
US Field/CA STAFF
CF to CF 5129-0253


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

0002348 12
Hunt

2/16/65 reassigned to
DOP
Operational services.
Office of Chief
3-126-0117 CF to V.

Hunt resigned in 1965.
went into official state
cover.

15/8/68 Hunt worked as
DDP representative on
CIA team preparing
the historical material
for the Johnson Library.

> [Figure: Text overlaid with black marker ink]

Mr. Hunt will be required to have access to documents in both
the TKH and BYEMAN systems.

Noel replaced Hunt
as polit. officer for
Frente in mid-March '61.

Hunt's book terms
Carr & Noel as "Col.
King's Crony" who were
active in non-Frente
Cuban groups thereby
undercutting him.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

455-4566
0002349
SECRET

13
HUNT

Hunt connection to A
"Henry Durkin" VIA
MAXWELL Wil "C.W."

Voluntarily retired after this fracas.

Working on same operation in 1954 as Phillips.

Interview report 4/24/70 reason: retirement. states that Hunt has taken job @ Mullen & Co. and that Kanawessines has asked him to keep in touch. Also notes that Mullen does provide cover for agents.

Memo dated 2/22/74 For the record from Laurence J. Howz. re: interview of Joseph N. Evans. Edward Ryan.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

6002350

SECRET

-14-

HUNT

Hunt ivas assigned to Madrid between 7/65+9/66.
Ryan was DC/WED.
said Hunt's assignment was handled two benefit of routing processing. was coordinated by Karamessines.
W.Σ. totally unaware of his activities, targets, etc.

Hunt was on "Contract A" Status at time.
2/1974 CIA tries to trace down K & Awhat Hint was doring.
2/15/74 memo of interview on Budget O who would have been responsible for Hunt's K etc:
It was his memory, that Mr. Hunts habet to deal only with the most senior officer available."

SEGHET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

0002351

- 15-

SECRET HUNT

couldn't find any record of operational funding in office of finance files.

Envelope:
"Current OS Sources and Methods (not relevant to HSCA inquiry."

Envelope:
"Documents regarding Hunt's 'letter address' (accommodation address) set up in 1963 and terminated in 1965--address is still being used by another indv.)."

6/3/70 letter memo from c/CCS to OS.

CSA requested orally on 5/28/70 for Hunt under Project QKENCHANT.

OS refuses ava first gaining concurrence of DDP


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

-76-
SECRET HUNT

CCS memo to DDP.
approval noted +
signed by @Karamessines
10/14/70.

evidently the plan
was that Hunt would
take over management
of Mullen & Co from
Mullen.

8/30/71 DDP requested
summary. Hunt bio
after joining WH staff.

5/10/72 Hunts novels were
M.F.R. sponsored by the C.I.S.
Holograph. CCS has asked ID of
David St. John - from OS.

"Inasmuch

Author, contacted Ed
Sayle, SRS:

"Inasmuch as Subject
has written under the
guidance of CI staff,
Sayle advised against
identifying him by
name.... He suggested


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

-17-

HUNT

instead that [inquiring]
be directed to referred
to Ray Rocca, Deputy
Chief, CI Staff ..., or
Mr. Angelton ....

Rocca later denies.

Documents on Photo
allegation.

It was brought to CIA's
attention by Sam Jaffe
on 9/23/74.

Finance records show
Hunt took 11 hrs sick
leave for 4 wk period
ending 11/23/63.
Next 4 wks he took 3 hrs
sick leave + 27 hrs annual
leave.

Travel records show
official travel to N.Y
in 9, 10+ 13/63.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

- 18 -
  HUNT

10/15/74 memo for
record by Ervan
E. Kuhnke, Jr.
re action taken on
the photo allegation

action limited to file
review "and a search
of our records which
produced the Jack
Anderson article refered
to..."

"A Bum Rap for Frank
Sturgis in Miami "
WP. 4/16/74. P B 15.

- was working under
  as special assistant
  to the DDO., Seymour
  Bolton.

"Mr. Jo Bolten appeared
satisfied and advised
that no further action
appeared necessary
at this time."

also discussed potentiality
that they would some
have to present proof to
a Cong. Comm. that Hunt - there.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SEUNCT
OFFICE of Security
File.

0002355

Alexis H. DA VISON

5/7/63 Memo for Record
Wash Post Clipping re
Davison trip to Oslo
on May 6-63, at end of
tour of duty.

5/7/63 NYT article - same
subject

Indices Search Request. 5/7/63
found reference to
file on Greville Wynne

Memo for Record 5/31/63
by Rasy 5. Cline (DDI)
re: visit from Lt. Colonel
Donald M. Dessert from
Air Force Intelligence re:
inquires as to whether
A.D. had been used in
any CIA ops. other than
Penchovsky. - DDI informed
him he hadn't.

6/4/64 Memo: Mother's address
+ quote from Wise + Ross
  passed to FBI. SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

0002356

# DAVISON - 2

16 May 1966
Check on Mayorie Clare
Anderson churned out
reference to Davison
(Uncle-In-Law).

1 February 71
SRS memo re Exposure
of CIA Personnel
says Nedelya article
said Amednb. operations
were being supervised
by a Mr. Malcom TOON.

29/Nov/72. SRSMemo to files
name check on Soviet
Visa Black list.
request for check from CSCI

Finis.

![Secret]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

0002357

DAVID LAMAR Christ

9/9/50 Memo from Contacts
Officer, Personnel Security
10/20/50 Branch. to Intelligence
Negative Integration Division.
RESPOSE. (name check)
DOB 1/20/18
POB TAMAGUA, PA
Address: #2 MOUNTAIN, PA.

8/30/50. Request for Investigation to FBI

9/22/50 Visner memo to
Chief, Inspection & Security
re: clearance for Christ
Served @ Signal corps,
U.S. Army, WWII
"security waiver"

10/3/50

security waiver is given
request for Provisional
Clearance, Christ placed
in Unclassified Pool on
11/1/50.

SECRET

8/Nov./50.
FBI response to Investi
of Christ-NR reported by


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

0002358

a “Mr. Shanklin”

11/9/50
P.C. granted for Christ
as an electronics engineer
GS-10 in O.P.C.
"Office of Policy Coordination"
predecessor of DDP.

1950 FBI reports on
background enveloped.

11/22/50
recommendation from
Appraisal Section for
full security approval.

11/24/50 Security approval
granted
Notice to Employees Division

11/24/50
Notice to Phys. Soc. Branch.

1/23/51
SECRET

Permission for Christ to
work part time after
hours @ Sholar Services, Inc.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

C002359
SECRET
Christ -2.
12/11/5-1
Christ transfered to
TSD.

3/3/5-2
permission granted
for attendence of Institute
of Radio Engineers meeting
N.Y.C. 3/3-6/5-2.

6/19/3-2
Christ security violation
for leaving safe open.
+ transmittal sheet
  for report.

7/29/5-2
update on Christ
status
address:
5-405 Hamilton St
Hyattsville, md.
shared apt @
Salmeron Diffine
Clyde Perrish.
now is GS-12
SUPERVISOR: PAUL H LEE.
associate: Thom strope


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

C002360

SECRET

Christ, p. 3.

note. there is a photo

12/18/5-2
letter Commanding General of Wright-Patterson that Christ will rep. CIA at conference there.

2/26/53
confirmation of Christ Security class to Direc. If R+D, Pentagon. Christ in Applied Physics, Division of TSS

4/23/5-3
authorization to attend IRE conference in NY.

9/15/53
confirmation of S. C. to Bureau of Aeronautics.

undated personel action list

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

6002361
SECRET

Christ-4

9/28/53
confirm S.C. to DS.

10/9/5-3
IBID. to Army Signal
Officer

10/30/53
IBID. TO NAVY

11/3/5-3
Security violation report
+ transmittal

3/4/5-4
IRE CONVENTION Approval

6/9/5-4
name ck on Dorothy
Anne Sampson kicks
out Christ.

10/15/3-4
confirm S.C. to AEC.

10/29/54
IBTP to NAVAL ops.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

SECRET

5002362

Christ - 5

12/18/54

request clearance for
"Special dintelligence"

12/19/54

clearance requesteal @
P.S.D.

1/19/5-5-

SC confirm to Signal Corps.

1/31/55

IBID. to Sec. of Def Office.

2/24/55

IRE CONVEN. App.

4/21/55

authorization to remove
tech, equip. from
CIA Buil

Undated -
PANEΙ&ΣΧΑΜ. HAVE NO OGj.
to Christ becoming member
of Career Staff.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

0002363

SECRET

Christ -6

8/18/55

ClEArANCE Cert to Bur.

of Aero.

9/5/55

IBID

3/1/56

IBID - Wright-Patterson

2/21/56

IRE CONVEN.

4/13/56

Overseas travel approval.
(GS-14)

to Japan, Formosa + Korea.
Air Force cover.

7/24/56

Clear. Cert. to CI. / AF.

7/24/56

request for preceding

9/6/54

certified to Bureau of Shps


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

0002364
SECRET

Christ-7.

9/7/54
request for cert.

3/4/57
IRS conven.

4/11/5-7
A.E.C. request for Class Q
clearance.

4/15/5-7
IBTO

7/19/57
Christ pledge re: contents of A Security File review for FBI. - means they reviewed it re: "Q"
clearance - alarmic
energy clearance,

6/25/5-7.
Travel auth for "various EE" under A.F. Cover

8/15/57
List of Children
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

Christ &

8/20/57
Q. clearance groented.

9/17/57
travel to South Amer.

9/19/57
listing of previous employment. (informal)
but doesn't make any sense & may not relate to Christ.

3/15/5-7
Clearance-cert.

9/17/5-7
for travel auth Air Force Cover.

1957 third FBI background Investigation. & transmitted. -enveloped.

11/8/57 Bio Summay sheet. form. 180 A

9/25/57 Invest. Frano. Sheet


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET

0002366

Christ - 9

11/12/57.
IBID

11/15/57
IBID

3/3/58
reassignement from
R+D (applied Physics) to
Tech. Aids/Audio sup.
Div.

2/26/58
request to Records
to block CIA associ.
@ Christ coz he's
going under cover.

3/7/58
travel auth. to Karachi
Teheran, Ankara, Athens,
Frankfurt, VIENNA, EX.AL,
A.F. Cover.

4/4/58
SECRET
cable IN 12282 request
sec. conf. so he can enter
Berlin. - Note that it was done


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

C0002367

SECRET

Christ - 10.
5/1/58
Cover CCB reopens.
Blocked name

1/22/59
CCB request for block.

1/2359
Travel Author.
LONON + Frankfort
AF COVER.

8/11/60
"Special Secrecy Agreement".
re "Project MARC"

3/13/60
(GS-15) Travel Auth.
Rabat
AF COVER.

6/12,13/63
OS - Interrogation
Research Div. - Info Flag
sheet -> MEANS he WAS
polygraphed AS part of debriefing
After return from CUBA. SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

0002368 Christ-1.1

9/23/60.
Credit chk report..
+ 4 blocks placed

8/20/63
Memo for bile says that "Mr. Miller,
Chief, Central Cover staff, and Chairman of the
ZRCHEST Panel" reported that Christ was
seeking approval for toy authorization
outside of US.
W.m. Knott DC/SR5 says its okay @ him.

8/27/63
Security Aproval for
Project I, A, cand O
PHASE 3"

8/30/63
Security APPROVAL for
"CORAL CLEARANCE."
OVER HEAD RECON.

9/16/43
Special IntelligeNCE CLEACANCE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

0002369

SECRET

9/2/63

Christ-12

Investigative Transmittal
Sheet.

9/26/63

approved for "domestic
assignment in D. C.
@ R+D. analysis DD's+7!

10/4/63

reports review of course
under "program recorded
in the DD's memo flo
13 December 1962"
reports recommends;
"No flag be issued."

Envelope:
Sensitive Sources + Methods
SAS memo date 26 Oct 63
to C/TSD.
-> deals @ placement
of sensitive source
still in place.
bring to M.G.. attention

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

6002370

Christ 13
9/19/63

"reassignment, change of SD and Transfer to vouchered funds."

JACK
SULLIVAN SD = SERVICE DESIGNATION, indicates change from "CF" (covert funds) to "V" (vouchered funds) - represented to me that "CF" are unvouchered.

"Cost CENTER No. Chargeble 4262-1000-1000"

should ask our questions re: this form to PERSONNEL

G5-16

7/27/64

Clearance granted for cryptographic material "Briefing Statement"

9/10/64

Memo for Dir. Finance re: Loss of Offical
funds by Conviscation
Christ "$4.23.58"
Castro Confiscated
Christe was on assignment


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET

Christ #14

for FE Division in 9/60 in Havana,
"Allotment number 1137-07169-5995"

2/16/65
indices search request!

ENVELOPE:
"Personal Information regarding a third party!"
IT re Christ reproduced.
Apparently he was being entertained by a woman in Cuba +
it may have led to his arrest.

12/22/64
request for Agency I.D.
Age: 46
Height: 6'
Weight: 185
Eyes: Grey
Hair: Brown

1/2/65
Clearance certif. to State


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

0002372 Christ #15

11/18/64
SEC. Cert. to State

1/12/66
Jaun A. Rodriguez
3000 SW 24 TERRACE,
Miami, FLA.
says he was imprisoned.

11/16/65 SPECIAL CLEACANCE
for Project RHYOLITE

12/13/65 RHYOLITE
secrecy agreement

12/13/65
special ClEACANCE RH

4/14/64
EP project ACCESS
termination.
overhead recon.

2/27/64
Clearance for EP.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

0002373 Christ 16

3/2/64. IBID

3/11/64 EARPOP Agreement

3/1/67 Appointment - Top Secret Control Officer

Envel:

1967 Agency Rekgrd ck.

9/29/67 Reinvesti process. sheet

4/21/67 approval as emergency courier

10/12/67 ID request.

9/13/63 ARGON agreement
CORONA "
IDEALIST "
OXCART

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECRET

6002374

Christ 17

9/27/63
* Request for entry of Christ for on "Domestic Cover list, afterwhich he will be told to deny association Military cover for operational purposes. (probably travel cover again)

4/30/63
Christ "Reassignment and Change of Service Designation "CF" to "CF". Cost Center No. 3125-1990-4000

1/21/64
Cover assignment to US Army Element, Joint Operations Group. for operational purposes. ref: request for cover (form 1322) 9/27/63.

Document entitled
"Notification of Establishment of Military Cover Backstop!"

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

SECRET

Christ 18.

1/22/68

Christ imprisoned @
Thornton J. Anderson
AKA Eustace H. DANgrunt
62067

WALTER E. SZUMINSKI
AKA Edmund R. Tasansky.
243816.
SOME info IN SRS #3280

5/21/68
Security Violation

6/3-168
EP Clearance.

6/12/68
IBID

11/13/68
ID request.

12/19/68
"Termination Understanding"

6/19/69
SECRET
Outside Activity Approval Granted


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

0002376

**SECRET**

Christ19

9/13/69

Secretary Agreement

8/3/70
8/5-70 MEMOS RE: Telegram to CUBA erroneously billed
8/10/70 to Christ.

10/12/70 Application for Retirement

SS 181-01-6133

6212 Maiden Lane, Bethesda

10/22/70

retirement

"V to V"

11/9/70 letter from Helms.

11/16/70 Honor Recommendation

11/19/70

granted

11/30/70

Resume

**SECRET**


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

0002377

Christ 20
11/20/70
Standby Reserve Approval

11/19/70
ck. for DOD Industrial
Security Clearance.

11/24/70
Secrecy Oath.
+ briefing report

11/16/70
OS has no objection to
merit award.

11/24/70
Fermi. Secr. agrees.

12/15/70
SEC. Approval for contract
work @ DEOVINCO

11/24/70
Revocation of Crypt Clear.

1/4/71
Cross reference to "CUBAN IMPRISONMENT
607 44e. OF CIA AUDIO TECH"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

0002378

SECRET

Christ 21

12/18/70
"K"ck- internal name ck.
"no record"

2/10/71
Clearance from DISCO

2/9/71 Noone ck Rpt

ENVEL:
1971 Agency Bckgid ch

4/13/71
mm ck Donna K. Coston

-1/26/71
DEVENCO Secrecy Agree.

8/10/71
Computer file ref.printout.

7/27/71
DC.S. @SEC. ck request

8/25/71
Case Processing Rec.

SECRET

8/25/71 response to DCS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

0002379

SECRET

Christ zz

9/26/72
request for Contact
security approval.
Household Water Cory
Reston.

10/3/72
Computer Printout

10/5/75
request for Industrial
Security approval

9/27/72
Liaison Clearance.

9/21/72
Secrecy Agreement

11/8/72
Zermonation. ΔΕVΕΝCO
Agreement

5/18/73
Computer printout

5/30/73
Case processing Rea

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

SECRET

0002380

Christ - 23

8/14/61

Memo for Record re
Mrs. Christ & Cuba Opera.
Christ was Chief
Audio Operations Branch
services all requests
for surreptitious instal.

AKA
NEET
Correct
also arrested Robert
MEET - CO under
State Cover - Arrested
+ released

Christ's cover: Victor Vachta
ASSOCIATES, NYC ENGINEERING

D.C. attorney: Murphey

operation ![Operation Escalade Logo]
ESCALADE

Hugh Kessler Amemb
contact transmitted
cover story.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SECRET

0002383

Christ 26

10/12/77 routing slip
request for SIRAGUSA
Anderson Christ file
review withdrawn
info I.G. was seeking was confirmed by another source.

2/4/50
secrecy agreement

3/22/57
PSQ

JMARC FLAG.

7/17/67
Personnel History Statement

12/10/70
DEVEnco clearance

PSQ (DOD)

4/23/73
Itek Security clearance
Consultent.
![SECRET]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SECRET

0002364

Christ 27.

Watergate File Review
FlAg - 6/20/74
in re McCORD CIARDS
matter.
photo included -
taken 8/69.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

Office of SECRET 2/6/78 Security Files

Dave Christ 43872 1

cover address established in 8/60
at Place, Catalonia
N.Y. - John Barry, residence

Carswell given birth cert
#438823, Ashland
Schuylkill Cty, PA
1/20/78
No 37, File# 166171-18
55#

NY drivers license 325-8920

Caroline Stacey - women involved in Cuban project.

Joe Langan - JMARC security officer in 9/60

operation LCHARVEST

expenses assigned to allotment # 1125-1007-1000 on 9/29/40

$10/16/61- Christ "debriefed" + clearances revoked. SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

0002386

SECRET

Christ - 2

8/17/62- negotiations for release underway.

9/13/63-Chirst "Indoctrinated for Special Intelligence".

Personal History Statement scan above left eye - on right forearm, left foot ankle

Last address: 6212 Maiden lane, Bethesda, Md.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

0002355

SECRET

1.  Diosdado 1 432-469
    1/9/61
    request for liaison approval.
    OOB 8/16/21, horado Texas

2.  1 time secret clearance granted same date

3.  2/21/61 Invest. report.

4.  Case Process. record.

5.  usedo to Inspect JMATE covert installation under FAA jurisdiction.

6.  5/15/42. liaison request. from Harvey.

7.  11/23/64 liaison request.

8.  3/10/66

9.  3/2/67

10. 7/16/62 request mm. ck. for use as CI asseto.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SECRET

0002396

11. IBID

Diosdado z

12. Bio

13. 2/5/63 files cancelled.
    C # 100985.

14. 5/3/66
    memo re: investi. by Customs
    "Jerry Mullane, WH/
    Security Officer, R. L. 1459,
    reported subject's salary
    is being paid by the
    WAVE Station and association,
    began in 1961 and it is
    continuing to date".
    file # 276656 (c) and
    4832469 (0)
- Jack says first is now
  in one I'm examining.

15. 5/13/66
    now SAIC - Key West
    memo re: investi.

16 5/18/66 - report of investi.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

0002397

SECRET

17 Dios 3.
holographic memo from Customs
Dios alleged to have sold guns to a group planning an invasion of Haiti. in 1966. -
involved in gun running since 1957., including Castro

18 2/23/67 memo re: allegations

19 2/21/67 memo re: calling off IRS investigation

20 3/23/67 Customs takes No Action BECAUSE his Salary PAID GY CIA FBI called off.

21 9/1/67 memo re: Cuban G-2 interrogation of Jose Ricardo Rabel Nunzet + his giving them Diosdadas name as a CIA recruiting agent.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

C002358

SECRET

Dios 4

22. memo re: Cubans arrested 7/18/62
    (RAGEI)

23. news-clipping
    11/13/72
    re: Richmond C Harper's arrest in a guns for Heroin deal-undercover agent was Diosdado.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

SECRET

Phillips 1 40696

DOB 10/31/22 Fort Worth

1930's in Santiago, Chile
used by OSO, OPC..
1952 clearance as
contract agent
195-4 as staff officer.

AKA (1954) John D. NAdElmAN

COVER 1956 PAUL D LAGEVIN.
Compromised 1957 Michael M. CHOADEN

56. - HAVANA.

*16/MAY/57 Egypt + Arab States

Transfer Branch Op. Officer
(REASSign) Project ctATE.
RPA Unvouchered
"Appropriation
From: 6-35-45-55-055
To: 7-3361-91-215"

* 8/18/58 resignation on

Television form "Notification
ASSOCIATES of Personnel action"
IN CUBA. notice that he will be
traveling in Latin
America on Business.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

C002401

Phillips 2:

4/3/5-9 mm ck for operation AMOURETTE-X

ENVELOPE.
Army records on Phillips.

9/59 concern over brown cover under name Choadin
Develop. COMPON.

1/16/60 back at HQ.

changed from contract agent to staff employee on 3/14/60, 3/15-60 start setting up a domestic cover for him.

4/15/60 reassigned to WHO, Branch 4. + JMARC

2/1/61 man named Michael Weimer Stratton (#488044) brought in to work @ Phillips. McCord concerned because of his association with Court Wood.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

0002402

SECRET

Phillips 3.

* 6/28/61 reass. M.C.

* 8/23/66 reass. to Santo Domingo.

* 8/30/67 back in D.C. as OPS Officer CH

Envelope: 1968 Bkgrd Inves.

* 1/2/70 Assigned to Brazil

* 1/19/72 Caracas, Venezuela.

* 5/30/73 CH/WHD.

* 5/1975 retires

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

SECRET

0002403 (zFolders)

WER Bell.pl #027686

Folder 1 (thin).

1 Bio Info (unotated.)

2 nim. ck. 7/20/5-9
informant - Dom. Rep.

3. Adm Response

4. Bio data

5 IBID

6 POA granted 8/4/5-9
C# 78785 (DDO #)

7. BIO DATA

8. Request for NAck. 8/14/5-9
   "Do Not Contact FBI. Also
   Contact Check Military
   (0-1649236)"

10 Envelope
1959 BKgrd Inves.

11 9/21/42 FBI requests info

12. 10/14/59 POA cancelled


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

0002404

SECRET

13. WERBER 2
    10/28/8-9 completion
    of investigation

14. 9/22/60 memo
    CO Tom COBB
    MW apparently causing
    trouble - calls him
    a “con man!!

15. Cable from 12/17/93 Dom. Rep.
    MW-VP of Frutas Intercontin-
    entales, C. por a. (FINCA)

16. NM. CK.

17. response to 15 (1/29/64)
    Station to AVOID contact on
    “operational matters” but
    should monitor.
    201-25-9910
    contacted ODENVOY
    ASA in April of ‘63 & said
    he was president of
    Communications International
    Inc.
    In otot Oct, Sept 1962
    her tried to get CA countries
    to recog. a Cuban gov’t


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

SECRET

mw-3
in exile.

10/10/62 0Ο ΣΝVY mw was being investigated for involvement in shipping arms to Ecuador.

18. 1/9/68 memo re: potential prosecution by Munitions Control Board. (1000 interest in weapon)

19. 2/26/68 cable re: call from CIA. offering info reported Venus loading for raid on Cuba to take place on 2/28/68. + info on Wer Bell & Marger.

20. report of inves. - 3/1/68 Neal T andrews, 45-09 Bruce Street, Daraville Sa, was informant was Engineer for sionics, Inc.

M.W. worked @ Marger+ Army Capt. Robert Broum ON CUBA & HAITI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

0002406

SECRET

21 mu -4

bkgd ck on 3rd party

22 rim ck 10/31/68
passport # J-685-508
MW in Saigon
Embassy records list him AS
ABC News REP.

23 response

24 Newspaper Clipping on
Haitian operation 2/26/70

25 5/27/70 memo
volunteered info to DCS
Miami in 2/67

26 Post story 12/27/70

27 Cable

28 5/25/73 memo re Coast
Sound Inquiry

29 10/14/73 re: MW. call
asking to speak to Colby


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

0002407

SECRET

30. 1/25/74 memo re: no associations with MW's firms

31. computer print out

32. Conien mm trace

33. 6/30/75 Memo. involvement @ Ralph M. McGill + Edward Lewis Bankston in "White Rose" operation (anti-Castro group.

34. 1/26/75 memo re: investigation in an extortion plot.

35. St. George Article.

36. computer print out.

37. FBI envelope 10/7/75

38. memos re involvement @ VITA

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

SECRET
COC24C8
1.  MW-6. (File #2 (Long))
    envelope 1945 bkgrd.ck

2.  8/11/45 Inves. Report.
    Security approval granted
    glowing recomendations

3.  12/10/45 Termination inter.
    50 branch/China
    leasing 5544 + army

4.  9/9/62 record ck. on
    Werbell/arms/Ecuador
    1959

5.  10/24/62 letter to Hoover.
    from DOP - response
    to 4 - no info on arms-
    reports seeking recog.
    for Cuba exile gov't
    went to Guatemala,
    El Salvador, + Nica.

6.  2/23/67 "Diary"
    "Bleichsub" calls + reports
    Werbell says Chet Gray
    concerned over alleged assass.
    attempt on a foreign slip sect.
    will go to gov. Calif


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

CC02409

SECRET

mw ?

if not contacted.
immediately - info
passed to Papich

AUTHOR
JW mcCONNEI

7. memo 2/24/67 DCS to OS. transmittal of 6.

8. search for Werbell & Masferrar FBI reports

9. FBI report 2/20/67 plant to assass UNI. Mid-East Ruler.

10. FBI report (no subst.)

11. security ck request from DCS 2/27/67 reports mw supplies info to Miami office

12. Case Process. Rec. N.A. ck.

13. envelope FBI/mw. 2/17/66, 2/15/66, 2/7/66, 2/3/66, 2/66, @ 1/26/66
    MASFERRAR: 10/66

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

SECRET

COC2410

mws

14 3/21/67 Bio Data
Leader of Organization
to Combat Communism.

15 4/26/67 Passport info
issued 5-/29/62 for
business trip to
Eng. + Germ.

16 Case Peroc. Rec.

17 blind report says
other agency reports
mw is "con man!"

'18 inter-office memo 7/5/67
to DCS reporting
forwarding 15 +17.

19 memo to TSD 9/7/67
silencer demo on 8/10/67
morning to CIA, ARPA
DOD
Afternoon- J.C.S.
describes mw as a pest.

![logo of the Navy Courier and The Free Blockade]

20 St. George article "The
Deadliest Salesman." in TRU 1/68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SECRET

0002411

21. MW 9
    memo to Ch of Sec.
    1/9/68. - same as in
    File #1.

22. memo to Office of
    Log. 1/11/68 summarize
    MW9

23. 1/9/68 memo re State
    Dep't interest in MW.
    no CIA interest or
    Business contact.

24. 1/11/68 memo to DDS.
    Summary & True Art.

25. computer print

26. 3/14/68
    Bruce Arman Baker
    11379 President Drive NE
    Blaine Village, Minn.
    keeps calling CIA
    requesting clearance
    that MW tells him he
    needs to work @ him
    on gun running.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SECRET

mw 10

5/15/69 OSI requests ck on mw since her is working @ firm @ military contract, memo says mw was "an unsolicited contact" from 1959 till her reached "peak notoriety" in 11/67 @ Masferran.

APPARENTLY DUE TO AKIS shipping from SAIGON & Haiti

7/7/69 - report that mw now under investigation by OSI internal security Divison for Contract Fraud.

RPts Mw shows up to make "FAST by selling Arms to support coups.

5/69/26 cable from reports mw passing self off as a COS Thailand

St. George article 4/70 TRUE The Mafia VS the CIA.

SECRET 3/10/71 memo Miami DCS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

CCC2413
SECRET

MW
reporting call from
MW about DOD revoking
his security clearance.

MW sought administrative
review

4/14/72 memo re: call
from MW seeking Comien's
address so he can
renew his friendship.

Cable 2/20/67 Miami
DCS re MW:
says that even toho
unsavory character
"much of the information
he has furnished has
proved true. He
furnished complete
details on the recent
Haitian Invasion plan".
reports Chet Gray
allegation - sez Gray
is a notorious hoodlum
in LA who was approached
CIA reporter met him
at a contacts house SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

CCL2414

SECRET

MW IZ
in P62 - details in
OOA (5) 5601 + OOA (5) 5-598
dated 12/18/62.

8/6/74 ABACO adventure
two "former" agency
employees, John Patrick
Muldoon and
Theodore John Roussos
reported on it. - advised
to report to FBI - memo
to FBI written by
D. A. Phillips.

8/8/74 routing slip on
FBI Report (Enveloped)
Phillips says he (MW)
was is "an American
creep" + that DP had
predicted trouble @
ABACO. - MW said
to have letter from
DCI

6/27/74 memo by
Phillips to FBI iz MW
FBI File # MM 105-21382.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

SECRET

MW 13

Werbell formed (Investigating
Central Information
Agency in early 70's.

8/12/74 reports that
MW working with
Chester Zochowski, Alias
Chester GAdy on AGACO.

4/10/75 memo:
Bayard WAS is pres of MW's CIA.
subsidiary: Security
Consultants, International
MW/CIA Wash. office
sub-leased to D₂Α

Josef Mackena, now
working for SCI -
former agency employee
was on loan to DEA
from 2/72 to 10/73.

Walter Jooseph MackEm
12/13/37, Omaha, Nebraska
2609 N. Potomac
Arlington, VA.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

SECRET

0002417

mw 12)

7/25/75 memo:
St. George-first interest by CIA in 12/49 when they learned he had worked for soviet intelligence in Vienna in 1943. mid 40's.
debriefed 12/58 re Castro's activities, also interest by 00/CD in 1/60, 2/62 + 4/64.

12/23/75 memo reporting that Mackem is chief suspect in an extortion opera involving over a billion dollars. - FBI says invest. to point that it will confront or drop.

ENVELOPE: 3rd agency 3/8/74 request for Ik to see if CIA did any elec. sur of mw.
response: No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

SECRET

0002418

mw 15.

St George article on A BACO -
"The Amazing New-Country Caper". 2/75

7/13/76 blind MEMO RE: meeting between "source", low Conien & Steve VAN CLEAVE 12 tanks for Israel,

CoNien presently in difficulty at OΣA "due to A Newspaper Article" + has been relieved & may be fired.

"source" is an old friend of Conien's who was invited along to evaluate Varn Cleve.

"source" & Condien agreed that "source would go by the name of "A Mike BISHOP"

SOURCE = Michael James King.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

SECRET

0002419mw 14.

6/29/76 memo re FBI inves of Letter Bomb extortion.
B.R. FOX / MACkEm

worked out of mw's CIA DCoffice

6/19/786
Ed MARger WAS used Open" mid-60's

Marger Os # 760 184
201760-184
DOB 18 March 1928 NY, NY
9/16/64 Provisional
Covert Security approval.
CSA granted 2/17/65

1967 case (Haiti) against Werbell was dropssed due to illegal FBI surveillana

WerBell, Bethel, & Charles Hall tried to get WACKENhest inde in Abaco- UNSUCCESsful.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

SECRET

Robert K Brown-
agency concern due to
a planned book on
Cuban operations
201-189473
involved in Haiti

Lyndon Hermyle LA ROUCHE
9/8/22, Chairman of
the National Caucus of
Labor Committees hired
Werbell as a bodygaurd
in 8 or 9/1977

SECRET

![image]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)