# Russell August Sangelle

Genzman
5-4-78

Robert Genzman and Harold Leap interviewed Russell August Langelle at C/A Headquarters on May 4, 1978. The interview yielded the following information:

Sangelle joined the CIA in September 1950, and worked mainly in SR9 of the Soviet Russia Division. In November 1955 he resigned from the agency on the pretext that he was disgruntled with his assignments. His CIA files would have reflected this termination of employment. The only document to the contrary would have been a memorandum from the Director of Central Intelligence Allan Dulles, stating that Langelle would retain all rights and benefits when he returned to the CIA. (at present this document would probably be in his personnel file.)

Approximately fifteen people knew that Langelle was still with the CIA after his resignation in 1955. These included John Mawry (SE), Joe Bulik (SR 9), Quentin Johnson (Chief of Operations), George Risevalper, Frank Levy, Ted Polling.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Genzman
5-4-78

SECRET

Jack Rindschi, June Sworbuck, Ed Galloway, Leonard Mc Coy (Reports and Requirements), Pierre de Silva (COS), and someone at the State Department's Office of Security.

At the time of his resignation, Langelle applied for employment with the State Department. In the interim he worked at the Hecht Company. In March 1956 he started to work at the State Department as a Security Officer. In September 1956 he was sent to Vienna, where he earned a reputation for being a strict Security Officer at the Embassy. He was deliberately tough on CIA personnel who breached security, in order to build his cover as a non-CIA foreign service officer. His salary was paid by the State Department. The CIA Chief of Station in Vienna and the Ambassador knew he was with the CIA.

11112575

Langelle served as the Security Officer at the Moscow Embassy from December 1957 to September 1959. In addition, he was the senior CIA officer there. The CIA contingent in Moscow consisted of five or six officers.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Genzman
5-4-78

SECRET

working inside the Embassy and approximately four outside. Inside, with deep cover, were George P. Winters (Econ. Officer), FNU Mahoney, FNU Venables, and Steve Washenko (Econ. or Agric. Officer).

Outside were Jean Seberman (teacher at the American school) and three or four students, who handled orientation projects rather than operations projects.

Langelle handled CIA communications in Moscow. The CIA used State Department channels of communication, but could code messages by means of one-pad encrypting so that the message was secret until it was forwarded to CIA headquarters, where it was decoded.

In 1959 the Soviets declared Langelle persona non grata as a result of his involvement with P.S. Popov. Langelle was the case officer of Popov, who worked for the GRU, Soviet military intelligence. While making a contact with Popov, Langelle was detained by the KGB and was questioned for two and a half hours. The KGB attempted to recruit him, and then released him. The State

SECRET
11112576


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

4

Genzman
5-4-78

Department filed a formal protest, but Langelle was told to leave the Soviet Union within three days. He left the Soviet Union in early October 1959.

Langelle first became aware of Lee Harvey Oswald when he heard in a conversation that a Marine had contacted the American consular office in Moscow to renounce his citizenship. He later heard that this individual had changed his mind and was returning to the United States. He does not recall the details of these conversations, but he believes they took place in the United States.

Langelle characterized Oswald's defection as a consular case to be handled by consular officers, rather than an intelligence case involving intelligence officers, who were shorthanded in Moscow at that time. He stated that the few intelligence officers in Moscow at that time were involved in specific operations, and did not perform general intelligence functions. He also stated that intelligence officers at the Embassy did not use the consular officers for intelligence purposes, and that there were


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

5

Genzman
5-4-78

SECRET

no CIA people in the consular section.

Langelle stated that the military intelligence people at the Embassy probably would have been contacted about Oswald's defection. The military intelligence personnel included Leo Dulacki (Marines), Paul Adams (Navy), John Munson (Navy), and Ted Hoffman (Army). He did not know whether Alexis Davison (Navy) was an intelligence officer or whether Davison was involved in the Penkovsky case.

Langelle stated that when Oswald left the Soviet Union, he was the responsibility of the State Department, the Immigration and Naturalization service, and the FBI.

11112578

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959, Winters was the senior CIA officer there. Mahoney and Seberman were still there, and Washenko may still have been there. Langelle's replacement as Embassy Security Officer was John Abidians who was not with the CIA. Abidian was later replaced by Hugh Montgomery, who was Winter's successor as senior CIA officer.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

6

SECRET

Ganzman
5-4-78.

Montgomery was later replaced by Paul Garbler, who became the frist officially designated Chief of Station in Moscow. Other CIA officers in Moscow circa 1962 included Rodney Carlson, Bill Horbaly, and possibly John D. Hemenway.

At headquarters the chief of the Soviet Russia Division was John Maury, followed by Howard Osborne and then David E. Murphy.

With regard to American journalists in Moscow, Langelle had no contacts with R. G. Korengold, or Aline Mosby, did not know A. d. Goldberg, and was contacted by Priscilla Johnson for an interview after he was declared persona non grata.

SECRET 11112579

When Langelle returned to the United States, he continued working for the State Department. He resumed his C/A duties on a part-time basis in 1961. He dealt with communications between Washington and Moscow. In September 1961 he resumed his CIA duties on a full-time basis at headquarters. He worked mainly in the Soviet Russia Division, External Operations, Africa and Europe. At present he is still with the CIA and still paid by the state Department, but he plans to retire soon.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

Sangelle

L'argette was born on October 7, 1922.

qtis social security number is 495-18-8808.

qte is married, with three children

Sangelle

joined the CIR in September, 1950,

and worked mainly in the Soviet Russia Division. In November 1955 he resigned from the Agency on the pretext that he was disgruntled with his assignments. His CIA files would have reflected a termination of employment.

The only document to the contrary would have been a memorandum from the Director of Central Intelligence Allan Dulles, stating that Sangelle would retain all rights and benefits when he returned to the CIA. Approximately fifteen people knew that he was still with the CIA after his resignation in 1955. These included John Maury (CSE), Joe Bulik (SR9), Quentin Johnson (Chief of Operations), George Risevalper (sp.), Frank Levy, Ted Polling, Jack Windschi, June Sworbuck, Ed Galloway, Leonard McCoy (Reports and Requirements), Pierre de silva (COS), and someone at the State Department's Office of Security. SECRET 11112580

Sangelle applied for employment with the State Department.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

Sangelle handled CIA communicatione in Moscow. The CIA used State Department channels of communication, but code could code messages by means of one-pad encrypting so that the message was secret until it was forwarded to CIA Headquarters for decoding.

11112581

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

2 deliberately tough on CIA personnel bor
security breaches in order to build
his cover as a non-CIA foreign service officers
His salary was paid by the State Department SECRET
In the interim he worked at the Wecht
Company. In March 1956 he began
started to work at the State Department
as a Security Officer. He was sent to
Vienna in September 1956, in September
1956 he was sent to Vienna, where he
earned the reputation for being
a strict Security Officer at the Embassy. He was
Chief of Station and the in Vienna and
the Ambassador knew he was with
the CIA. He served as the security
officer at the Moscow Embassy from
December 1957 to September 1959.
In addition, he was the senior CIA
officer there, with five or six
CIA officers working inside the Embassy.
And approximately four outside.
Inside were George P. Winters (Econ Officer),
Venables, and
Mahoney.
Steve Vashenko (Econ, or Agric. Officer).
Outside were Joan Seberman (teacher
at the American school) and three or
four students, who handled orientation
projects rather than operations projects.

SECRET 11112582

In 1959 the Soviets declared
L'Angeli persona non grata as a result
of his involvement with P.S. Popov.
L'Angeli was the case officer for Popov,
who worked for the GRU,
Soviet military intelligence. L'Angeli
had been contacting While


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

3

SECRET

making a contact with Popov, Langelle was detained by the KGB and was questioned for two and a half hours. The KGB attempted to recruit him, then released him and The State Department filed a formal protest, but Langelle was forced to leave the Soviet Union within three days.

Langelle first became aware of Lee Harvey Oswald when he heard in conversation that a former Marine had contacted the American consular office in Moscow to renounce his citizenship. He later heard that this individual had changed his mind and was returning to the United States. He does not recall the details of these conversations, but he believes they took place in the United States. 11112583

Langelle characterized Oswald's defection as a consular case to be handled by consular officers, rather than an intelligence case which involving intelligence officers, who were shorthanded in Moscow at that time. He stated that the few intelligence officers in Moscow at that SECRET time were involved in specific operations, and did not handle perform general intelligence functions. He stated that Oswald, when he returned. He also stated that the intelligence officers at the Embassy did not use the consular officers for intelligence purposes.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

4
and that there were no CIA employ people in the consular section.

SECRET
left the Soviet Union, was the responsibility of the State Department, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the FBI.

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959, Winters was the senior CIA officer there. Mahoney and Sebernar were still there, and Vashenko may still have been there. Langelle's replacement as Embassy Security Officer was John Abidian, who was not with the CIA. Abidian was latered replaced by Hugh Winters as the successor. Montgomery, who became the senior senior CIA officer. Montgomery was later replaced by Paul Parler, who became the first officially designated Chief of Station in Moscow. Other CIA officers in Moscow circa 1962 included Rodney Carlson, Bill Narbley, and possibly John D. Nemingway.

Military intelligence personnel in Moscow included Paul Adams (Ground) Attaché (Navy), Tad Hoffman (Army

At headquarters, the chief of the Soviet Russia Division was John Mawry, followed by Howard Osborne and then David E. Murphy.

SECRET
11112584


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

6

When Longelle returned to the United States, he continued working for the State Department. He resumed his CIA duties on a partitime basis in 1961. He dealt with communications between Washington and Moscow. In September 1961 he resumed his CIA duties on a full-time basis at Headquarters. He worked mainly in the Soviet Russia Division, External Operations, Africa and Europe. He present at present he is still with the CIA and is still paid by the State Department, but he plans to retire soon.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Langelle
Russell August Loungeki

SECRET

Genzmar
5-4-78

10-7-22

495-18-8808

M 3 ch. SRD (SR9) Language, operamal +mil. experience, relias, stabil-

CIA Sept 50 word-disgruntled

Nov. 55 resigned from agency -Sed. Off- cover building
Vienna COS Renew (Graful
status & amorally)
↓
interim memo from director
all rights & benefits Moscow - Dec-57
post ad.
when returns
Hecht Co. (Dulles) Sept 59

started 15 knew people all buried
Plate (SR9 - internal ops
gnos.component. not a station

Mar 8856 + couple of
officers in first COS Paul Garbler
Drorsion
Vienna
Sept 56

- SE-John Moury
  SR9 Joe Bulich
  Ch. of Ops Quentin Johnson

Barge falder (sp) Keschalter
Jaunch Kincky
Frank Levy
Ted Polling
Jack Lindsciri
June Sworbuck
Ed Galloway 11112586

Reperto & Requirements.
Leonard Me loy

COS Prerre de Selive

DOS - Office of security.

tepba not aware

Moscow - 5 to 6 officers inside
4. outside.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

2 Jangelle

SECRET Gonzman 5-4-78

Inside - Winters, Mahoney, Venables

Steve Washenko (Econ. Officer)

Outside - Alan Leberman - Teacher

3 or 4 students - orientation rather than operations

left in 59 John Abidian (State de. Officer) took over State

Abidian replaced responsibilities - sort of senior

by Hugh
Montgomery (integrated) CIA George P. Winters - Econ.Off...

senuor officer Agric. Off...

Washenko - maybe still there

Mahoney & Seberman

PNG - agency operation

penetration on BRTL-mul. intell-

Pyta 5 Popov. agent

16 was case off.

case compromised

got approval from Charush.

to kidnap - as stepped off a bus

tried to recruit

released after 2½ hrs.

said they would get in touch

State protested

PNG 11112587

Back to US - worked for State Jan 60

handled State Dept duties + agency functions

Resumed CIA parttime '61, Sept. '61, HQ at full time basis.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

Sangelle

So Angele

3

SECRET

Gonzman
5-4-78

(Penkovsky)
cut-out-Brit. wife
SR9 Sept. 61-62
moved back to CIA
on full-time basis Sept. 61
(Dec. 58 - Sept. 59)

Mahony GSA officer

Communicat. - Mov. to HQ
SR9 Jack Maury

Winters remained

CHO,

in conversations a consular officer said Marine
renounced citizenship

walk-ins
consular off. would bring it to your attention

George Wieswalper - in Berlin, handled Popow while
in E. Berlin & Vienna.
- handled Penkovsky
- maybe Rosenko.

Used State communications
one pad encrypting

SECRET

11112588


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

Sangelle
of 'Angele

SECRET

Gerznian
5-4-28

no CIA people is consular section.

mil intell. Pauls Adams Nav.
Ted Hoffman am
Munson Nov.
Dulački Mar.

would have been contacted

Korengold - no contacts

Johnson-aobed for interview of ter his PNG

Mosby- no contacts

Goldberg-didn't know

Davison - doesn't know if agency.
not involved in Pent to his knowledge.

dip. personnel could not be used for intel. without
prios approved from State.

Provocations

Harmstone

11112589

Naval aviator

Atsugi-53-55

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

Langelle
L'Angeli

SEGRET

Genzman
5-4-78

62 Hugh Montgomery (senior)
John Do Hemingway (?)
Paul Garbler (cos; replaced Montgomery)
Rodney Carlson
Bill Warbley

No comma source register with mel. + Moscow

63-SR, Chief of External Ops.
Africa + Eur.
Still paid by state
(FSR 4 in Moscow
65B-Moscow)

David E. Murphy - Chief of SR Dist. @ 64-65
COS in Berlin during
Popov operation while
L'A in Moscow

then Maury
followed by Howard Osborne
Murphy

11112530

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

5

He believed that the military intelligence people at the Embassy would have been contacted about Cowald's defection. The military intelligence personnel included Part Hoffman (Navy); Dulachi (Marines), Paul Adams (Navy), Munson (Navy) and Ted Hoffman (Army).

Jangelle did not know whether Alexis Davison (Navy) was an intelligence officers in the Penkowsky case, or whether he was involved.

With regard to American journalists in Moscow, Jangelle had no contacts with R. G. Norengold or Aline Mosby; did not know A. I. Goldberg, and was contacted by Priscilla Johnson after his expulsion for an interview after he was declared persona non grata.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

rev.61 Eugene Winters
Mahoney - Rt.1 Barbelly
Spring, W.Va
30-61 - 11 64 Garbler - Vienna Hillct. 22180

(17Feb62 - 200p.63 Osborne - Me Lean
356-4650 Montgomery-
first COS 26june 62-14 Dec.62 Rodney Carlson

11 Jul 63, 31 Aug 65 Edward Gotchef HQ
annual leave til May 22
11 Jan 63, 18 Jan. 66 Jerzy Prehn HQ 2p.m.
May 12
C/SR John Maury
1Dec 54-29 Jul.62 3704 Farr Ave,
Fairfax
Howard J. Coborne
30 Jul 62 15 Sept.63 Atty. John Debelius.
948-6727
David C. Murphy
1537 Forest
16 Sept 63-10Mar Villa Lane, McLean
68 355-9523

11112592

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)