# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## Briefing 2/14/78

Bill Donnelly - chief of Information Services Staff

Mike Cluff?

Lee Coyle

Virginia Toses

## Opening of 201

Operational interest

Trace would be consulted regarding existing materials -> open 201

Trace produces computer printout / refs., not documents. In early 60's.

It produced index cards.

Who opens 201?

Case officer - it's his judgement which determines whether if

If no intention of continuing interest, 201 may not be opened.

If the an am. & info. comes from a source such as FBI, CIA may not open a 201.

If this type of info. comes in, it would go into index

There are certain criteria

1) Recruitment

2) High-Level Communist officials

There are some operations which are run out of headquarters, in which case, a case officer is involved.

PRO. Pt. I

. Pt. II - might reflect Sp. involvement

There should be a doc. indicating reasons why a part-person is not recruited.

There should be a reference in 1st file to document in 2nd file if there is one.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

lafo. in PRQI is infp. elected fromotters.

"II is info. from person if he is recruited -> they want it separatist, to be viewed only on "seed-to-know" basis.

Standard Yorm for opening 201 file uld not contain season; would contain ref. to a document while would be the reason.

201 #'s all designed dy a particular office they are opened in sequential numerical order.

201 would contain photo if agency has one - if it has been sent in from field. If photo is sent in from field or another agency after 201 has been opened, it would be added to 201.

Doc. "Review of 201 file on U.S. Person" - Person is categorized by a review of the file using specific criteria.

PRQI does not apply a PROIT.

Normally PROI & PROII would exist in the same file. If PROII contains primarily op. info., then it would be maintained in separate file, which would idea reference was made. If operational info. is limitied access the entire 201 would have.

True name & cryptonyms are not maintained on the same cluet. On 201 reg. form, there is room for a cryptonym, but it is not filed in a true name file.

There is a table of contents list of what is available in 201 file. This is compiled from abstract record list in computer system.

Green list check: Info. gathered as as result of SIGINT or COMINT.

K list check: also a separate check, but Cuffy doesn't know what it checks.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

Central Cover Staff

CIA-State Dept. integration

"High % if cover" - where S.D. employees are aware that CIA emp. is in fact employed as more integrated cover where a person would do a full-time S.A. job & also a CIA job which is unbeknownst to rest of S.D. employees. - Could be a "deep official cover" as well as a deep cover.

An citizens of most foreign countries used in some manner would, as a general rule, have a security check.

If that person was an official from either govt. agency or from military, that org. would have to be consulted.

Probably would use that org.'s

PLS - Policy & Co-ord. Staff

↳ would be involved in co-ord. of a project in which both the CIA &

another org. was involved.

To the extent of CIA involvement, files would be maintained. That is not to say that other would not have more comprehensive files.

Project file

Graphics-

OCR - office of Central Reference - parts of NIAC

Reference registry of ships, things of intelligence matters are maintained there

Photos of prominent people

Photos of tourists or similar groups would not be of interest

Sensitive Office Vouchered / Unvouchered Funds

P&L: Prescribed & Limited - refers to communications which are compartmentalized.

Opening of P&L channel of comm. is determined by one of 3 persons - Chief of PLS, ADDO, or DDO

0001744

PAGE 3 of 20

COPY NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

This has always been true - In earlier times, it may have been restricted by even fewer persons.

RICH communication may, in time, be downgraded; may never be destroyed.

Is it possible, in context of a CI threat, in case of our hypothetical that info. would not be compiled in a 201 file, it is conceivable that many docs. could exist in the system & not be compiled into a 201 if they don't appear to be a reason for a 201.

Pseudo: false name used purposes of communication

Crypto: used to id. area of ops. By digraph, followed by group of letters. You cannot assign a cryptonym w/out having a 201 #

If hypo. Soldier isss has given away mil. secrets & then defects, a 201 file would not necessarily have been opened - it might be a mil. matter. CI staff may have had interests in defector

In early 60's, there was an interest in defectors.

Dan's hypo based on ZPRIFLE:

574 A form: request to put doc. into system

? 1997 " " " "

In op. such as ZPRIFLE doc. may be severely P'd - might never go into system except upon determination officer handling case.

"Sleeper agent" hypo: 2 or 3 sleepers in comm. China doesn't necessarily have to know it since it is being sent from Hqtrs. - from AAP to CI Staff - reasonable scenario

Would a 201 be opened on sleeper?

Competing of secrecy vs. being able to keep track of sleeper

Change of sleeper to Am. soldier defecting to E. Germany's -ND 201 opened - C.O. in letter. - report comes in if from reliable source stating that sleeper is providing info.

SECRET

0001745

PAGE 4 of 20

COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SEGRET

Plans would take place in small room in CI staff.

Form must be signed by DDO - would be put into op. file on the subj.

Op. file would be held at CI staff desk or at action desk.

Problems: communication

: Equipment

Op. files can generally be destroyed according to guidelines.

Is it possible for someone to have both a 201 file & then Personnel file? yes

0001746


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

1/26/78

# SECRET

Records Administration - help diffe directorates set up records sys

- Bruce Johnson

- George Frater

R10 - defunct designation for purt / Info Service Staff at handles 000 records

ODA

![image of ODA box]

ISAJ

![image of ISA box]

RA

![image of RA box]

ISS

![image of ISS box]

PRODUCTION PROHIBITED

DDD has a filing sys unto itself

Any DD can call upon RA to give assistance... But DD can also design its own filing sys so long as RA's legal guidelines are followed. But RA usually is informed of how the other filing sys work.

PRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Day to day decentralization of file is

ISS Central sys is also heart of indiv for division C.i. and systems.

- /or items of record value

Special material might not go into central file. ie Special Correspondence

0001747
PAGE 6 of 20
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Prescribed & Limited
- highly sensitive info - limited distin.
- to certain indivs.
- designation as pOC is made by DDO
+ senior staff officer

Pol designation - deep cover agent in
hostile territory might receive this
designation.
- this would not
  be uncommon case of this kind.

10 or 15 yrs ago, w/ suple senitive
operations, this was relatively common.
* Possi: for something to be so sensitive
  that no 201 file is assigned.

CI Staff has gone over accumulation of
many yrs. it is now catching up to
place names in central index.

possi to the replacing where a
p+L file is the lost to locate.
- lost, destray advised.

Could open 201 file w/o giving indication
of prior issue w/ CIA. This, according
to Johnson, would be impossible.

0001748


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

Geory Fractar

Cryptonym would be in 201 file.

201-: need for a continuing interest in order to open a file.

Source.

asiel

adversary

K6B

Counterintelligence threat.

-> 201 file would be opened wli matter of chap or a wk--assuming source is accurate.

ien on American revicence from in Germany who is giving info to Prussians.

To locate where documents were filed prior to being placed in file, refer to contract sys under document #.

If sleeper in Ger is actually oper # assigned to him, it is possi that his case officer would prevent opening of a 201 file #.

applicatim to Intragency Jare register exists -> avoids poss of > 1 agency hiring same agent.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Graphics index = will not contain routine pictures of tourists or groups

201 files will not neily contain pictures.

See next page There is no (Centralized) names index, correlated info would not certain, but his info would not be retained for record purpose.

possi for 201 file not to contain crypt.

deepkover - these people don't have 201's in their true names.

201's are not opened in provetomyor

Bob Bartow.

There are no working files. have 201 Kawion of a 201 file. Local offices have

Files other than 201 subject files - partien target. project files. policy + migation


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Project files

SECRET

I for every project in wh-.
involved, even if project taken by Agency, ie
run by anoth-ay
(i.e. DOD).

cover staff- involved in creation of
cover.

# of deep cover personnel in setting up
deep cover ...- could be at least 12...
- unless you show to 000

such too deep cover programs & exist.

There is a central listing of
"Cryptonyons". From this list you get
true name, then go to 201 file of
there is one.

Staff personnel

«no "dy of 201's

age Will include
" hair " of operation."

There is no such filing sys by
true name, pseudonym, crypt, & 201...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

There is no staff officer or asset filing indicating what operations /projects the staff officer/asset was involved in.

Contiguous employer relations w/ govt / Case file or contract agent = LA in FBI export capacities. Contract agent: Unpaid people who are controlled by CIA.
agent + asset may be the same.
agent bec as "" in it not weekly or always controlled.

source - provider of info
asset - may someone who may provide a service or info.

Name ck process - procedure to learn what is known about a person.
-involving a ck of files
as to there is info into 201 file if
201 files are generally in sequence.

Name cks are always done w/ opening of 201.

True id may be kept out of 201, # it would be worked in cryptonym.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

There is a centralized filing sys by true name, pseudonym, capacity, & 201 to - called a true name index.

[See filing sys] ng it dust

![reproduction prohibited stamp]

![reproduction prohibited stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

Fretar
201

Subject - countries, projects

exist for all projects that CIA
is involved in.

Support
Finance - crypt file
Logistics - automobiles, clothing, supplies
Communications - cable, chrono file on cable; microfilmed.
Security - security files; under procedures. personnel files on applicants & agency employees. for agents-2 file in office of security.

Overt
Covert

Blog data, reslts of sec. investigation, assignments

anything that be does
when he's overseen writing a dispatch assignments listed sec file.

Medics - industries on all staffers some agents they can get it. psych profile

training - agents, mgrs, secretaries, officers

ODP (office of data processing) - out log reports used by agencies to show problems relative to completion.

CRET

PAGE 13 of 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

Betey Wolf

CTA Briefing - January 26. 1978

Records Admin. Branch - w/in DOA

RIA -> subsumed. Infp. Services Staff - only ADO.

DAA

ISAS - Infp. Systems Analysis Staff

Records Adria. Braned

Can be used for any level w/in any Direcion, but anyone can design their own systems, providing they inform RAB so that they can monitor compliance.

"Famely Jewels Collection":

Highly sensitive compartmentalized info. tends to be diverted from central records

Guidelines for handling & maintaining secret but not for completing "bigot list" emphasis on limiting access.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

p.2

"Prescribed & Rimited" Distribution (P&L): doesn't cover files but info, communications

"Sleeper" hypo: Operation could have been so sensitive as to be kept out of filing, indexing system, particularly 10-15 years ago.

May have then handled out of front offices; may not have been read.

201 #'s: Assigned; were assigned by RID 10-15 yrs. ago.

Files were not designated "P&L", but were "restricted" to confined jurisdictions.

Cryptonym assignment: part of ISS - Central Top Secret & cryptic reference Staff

"Sleeper" would have to have a cryptonym for op. purposes. Would list cryptonym w/201 # -> no name, not in STAR system

Bob Bartone - Basis for opening a 201 file:

Some sense of "continuing interest" with a potential source, agent, KGB official - can be either for operational or counter-intell. purposes

Could be either to consolidate social references in STAR system

Could be opened in response to propaganda - Ex.: Incredible source ref. to some suspected KGB person

201 could be opened in a matter of hrs., days or weeks if someone recognized info. of significance on part. person

"Files content listing" - supplemental listing from STAR system

Abstract system of STAR: could find prior references to a part. document

When did system start?

sometime in '60's


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

p.3

# SECRET

Central Source Register

Ask Shugg for details

Interagency Source Register: in effect probably since beg. of CIA (of Intelligence Agencies) - don't include regular personnel-only assets - would be based on true names - wouldn't contain sensitive sources

201 files would not necessarily contain a photograph - even if photo existed, it may not be kept in 201 filed but may be X-ref. to a specific desk.

Ask Shugg

Graphics collection in DDI

Indiv. desks will collect photos of persons of interest

May contains photos of terrain, etc. Not particularly interested in group pics., etc.

Listing of assets - would be maintained in a working manner at separate desks.

Ref. Shugg

DAO would be only place where there would be access to this type of listing

By & large, no 201 file on employees unless there was an op. interest prior to employment or official Personnel File

Opening docs. of 201 file would contain refs. to clearance papers (which would be maintained in Sec. office)

Emp. under deep cover -> Staff Agent - dis files would disappear under his pseudonym. de converted & would

Don't open 201's on pseudonyms, but could open one on cryptonyms.

0001757

# SECRET

PAGE 16 of 20

COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

p.4

Only I copy of a 201 file; may be a working field copy

Subject files

Project files:

Policy & mgmt.

Project file: operational mgmt. record of a given project.

A. Administration

B. Support

C. Production

201 would have info on asset involved in project; project file's info is on operation itself.

See Gregg Operational Details

Central list of cryptonyms - where they're registered - you can match the cryptonym with the true name. The more sensitive the asset in operation -> the more difficult it will be to get to true name.

Hard file: Official information

Soft file: includes working papers - anything of record value in soft file would be included in hard file.

Project files: where are approval, decision-making records filed?

Personnel file:
contains: where worked; supervisor's name; type of work done; evaluations.

Does not contain specific operations in which employee was involved.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

p.5.

Employees

4 case officers - intelligence officers

Contract employees

Agents: may or may not be paid to represent assets who are under their control

Asset: someone from whom they can get useful services, including

Source: source of information

Ask Hugg PRQ: Basic biog info.

Way of ordering available info.

Fundamental doc. in an agent's 201 file.

Name check (= trace) process includes check of following:

STAR trace

Travel files

Office of Security

Provisional approvals

Also do name checks other agencies

Negative AM/LASA name trace -

Green check list:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

p.6. George Fratas

Subject Files: countries, projects, name.
201 Files: individuals

Would be a matter of routine to maintain files on another operation originating in another agency.

Agent:
201:

Office of Security
" of Finance:
CI staff might have info.

Finance: acetgs., vouchers, receipts; will have a cryptonym file
Logistics: support-autos, clothing, etc. necessary to run operations
Communications: cables, telegraphs.

Maintain a chrono. file -- cables - on microfilm.
Cables are logged in number, date, station
Security: Security files listed under pseudonym if an agent

Agents:
* 2 files - each with the same #
    * Overt - true name
    * Covert - pseudonym - listed in index

Started to eliminate dual filing @mid-'60s
Ask D&O - Would an agent ever operate under a pseudonym

If it has pseudonym -> he is in file
(overt) True name: biog. data, results of bckgrd. check, security violations & assignments
(covert) Pseudonym: Contains everything the person did - lists where

SECRET 0001760
![illegible marking]![illegible marking]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

p.7

SECRET

He worked, what he did, etc.
If an agent, it would have a POA for each project the agent was involved in.
If a staff employee it will only have a list of assignments.

Medics: Medical histories on all staffers; or agents if they can get it
Psychological profiles

Training: Train agents, mgrs., secys., officers
Run all training centers

Office of Data Processing: Put together programs used by computers.

Personnel: applicants for agency employ.
all agency employees

ADO has central index x-refs, true names, cryptonyms, pseudonyms & 201 members.

0001761


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)