# Boxss Foeder

Galmer 8/7/78

Orlande Bosch Avila - Office of Samnitie 257 921

1. Volume - Dates 1962-78

Deletions - 1 sealed envelope

5 March 1977 Cable IN. 207098
To: Director CITE Caracas

Response to a 4 March news article in "El Mundo", Caracas - named CIA apies as Orlando Bosch, Recaido Morales, Navaritte, Orlando Garcia Vasquez, Luis Posada Carriles - etc. Cable states "fortunately, none are currently active assets."

8 April 1977. Memo; Chief: Security Analysis Group. From: [John F. Sullivan] Jr./Michael W. Roneck:
Subject: El Mundo Exposure

Office of Security indices. Check on Names (some of which outlined in #1, above).

"In those cases above where a security file exists, there is no evidence that any of the individuals are current, active assets."

0003594

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

Palmer
8/1/78

Clare Booth Luce-
Office of Security - One volume

Deletions - one sealed envelope - Summary of
FBI Investigation July 1973 (BUD. BI of 1953 BI)

① 26 July 1963.
Covert Security approval requested so Luce
can contact COS, Rome ( Wm. Harvey) when he
visite U.S. os the visits Italy.

② 8 Aug 1963 - Covert Security Approval granted
for a 6 mo. period. Luce, Clare Boothe #169 102.

0003595

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

Palmer
8/14/78

Godoy

in Cuban underground.

6. 5 Jan. 1962,
   Cable to Director from... JUWAVE.
   Godoy elected unanimously as General Coordinator,
   MRP on 4 January. Decision being sent Cuba
   for radification of underground... Godoy plans to
   Contact Dr. Miro re: MRP entry into CRC.

7. PRQ. Part I - 13 March 1963 aka Oscar Acosta.

8. Cancellation & Division 5 July 1963
   Attn: Walter Kuzumuk
   File on; Godoy cancelled & closed C1/OA
   because of failure to submit PRQ II as required
   under CSI No. 10-5 or to indicate any further interest.

9. Domestic Asset Report.
   Godoy - DPOB. 13 March 1927, Havana. One of the
   three present leaders of MRP in exile.
   Has experience in clandestine activities. Assigned
   to recruiting candidates for MRP. Godoy is a
   professional man who lost his business when
   Fidel took over. He is easy to control & has
   a better concept of PM activity than Ambang-2
   or Ambang 4. Relationship with c/o is good.

SECRET

0003598


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

Palmer 4 8/4/78

Godoy

PRQ Part II 3 May 1963

Subject will be CIA penetration of a Cuban efile group & will be paid a monthly stipend depending on amount & type of his production.

Cable. 8 July 1963. IN 7543

To Director from JMWAVE

Indicates MRP, Alpha 66 & SFNE have combined

1 July 1965. Dispatch to Chief / WH from COS / Miami.
Transmits Memorandum of Oral Commitment on Godoy, who began employment with CIA in a PW capacity in 1961, subsequently transferred & C.F activities & up until now paid from OOA funds. To receive a salary of $350 per month.

6 July 1967 Dispatch to Chief / WH

From: COS, JMWAVE

Godoy terminated 30 June 1967. His overall reporting has been marginal at best during past year, partly due to his lengthy absence from area & a decreased interest on part of JMWAVE in efile groups he is reporting on. Recommend for reuse if situation arises. Has been lured as consultant for Hudson Institute.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

Galmer 8/7178

Joaquin Goday y Solin (Coxid from 8/4/78

DED documents - no notes

Goday y Solis, Joaquin - C-94894
CI/OA

(1) Request for Approval of Investigative Action.
17 October 1961 - Godoy AMPAZZ/1
To be used as contact between WAVE and MRT.

(2) PRO-Part I - 16 Oct 1961.
Goday - aka Oscar Acosta
DPOB- March 13, 1927, Blavana, Cuba
No political affiliations - works for MRP

(3) Provisional Operational Approval granted 17 Oct. 1961

(4) PRO-Part II - 3 May 196.2.
Clarence E. Imeryage developed, Godoy in NMWAVE area for PM operational leads after his arrival from Cuba in summer of 1961.
As an official of MRP, Godoy to influence its policies and guide its anti-Communist propaganda effort. To be offerred approx. $300 monthly, half in cash and half in escrow, the latter for both lover & control purposes.
0003600

(5) Request for Cancellation of Godoy on 27 July 1867.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

Palmer 8/7/78

George Nobregas-201-310/31
DDO- 1 Volume + 1 pkg Loose Documente

1. 8 November 1961.

Personality File Action Request from Howard gossage /WH4:
Jorge Angel Nobrezas Herin (sic) DPOB: 7/22/24, Havana

2. 3 June 1957 - Field Information Report

Documentary - list of Cubans who left Havana
for exile during period of 7 May - 1 June 1957.
Jorge A. Nobregas Veria (sic) 1 June to San Jose

3. PRQ 23 October 1961. Jorge Angel Nobregas Herin
   Educated in U.S. - Ga. Military Acadamy, North
   Georgia College, & Uni of Georgia. (B.A. - Intl (Relations 1950)

4. Dispatch - 27 Oct 1961. To Chief: WHD from COS/SMWAVE
   Lists Nobregas as one of crew members of
   M/V Susan Ann.

0003601

5. Aug. 29, 1961. Memorandum - Attn: Bill Signed: B Amclatti/1

Information on Jorge Nobregas, aka "Coco"

Jorge one of three brothers (Leshe, Jorge & Evelio).
Was an activist in revolution against Batista
& worked in the Aleman group. When Castro
took over, Nobregas took over Hotel Riviera in
Cuba. Accused of stealing Riviera funds but
protected by Chief of Police Almejeiras who supposedly
was the one who placed shoes in the ministry


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

Palmen 8/7/78

Nobregao

of Recuperation. In this positioni he was involved in theft of Jewele & money. All sources envolved in informing on Nobregas consider him of a man of no scruples, a homosexual & not to be trusted.

Cable dtd 15 Nov 1961, To: Director From: JMWAVE. IV 22200 JMWAVE receiver 9 derogatory info on Nobregas from reliable source. In August, Leslie Nobregas, Captain of Susan Ann, instructed to get rid of his brother, Jorge, due to many reports of his homosexual tendencier. Leslie refused. Because of reasons listed below, JMWAVE must rever completely all operational relationships with Nobregas brothers 8 two of Jorges special friends who are crewmen of Susan Ann.

a. on Nov 1, entire crew not satisfied due to unfair treatment & favoritioni shown to Jorge clique.

b. Crew lacks confidence in Leclien fortitude.

c. Crew says Leslie has more than once been forced to accomplish a mission because crewmen held a pistol this back.

d. Gondies say they will not "operate with us" if Nobregas group remains.

e. Other crews resent support of Nobregas group.

SECRET

0003602


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

Palmer 8/7/78

Nobrega...

18 January 1963 Dispatch to Chief/**Task** force in from
COS/JMWAVE #UFGA-7219
Subject: Operational/GYROSE/AMCONCERT/1
Report on Jorge Nobregas Heria
Nobrega was jailed in La Cabanas prison after jewel theft in 1959. Jose Aleman Jr. made arrangements through Jose Llanusa Jobel & have Jorge released.

Information Report 22 Nov. 1963

TDCS DB 3/658,111

Source: Reliable Local law enforcement officer - Miami.
As of 11/20/63, Nobregas, member of Montecristi group, had 14 M-3 submachineguns which he was offering for sales in Miami. Believed weapons represent some which were stolen at Big Pine Key at time of April 1961 invasion.

Deletions: Sealed envelope

FBI 2 april 1963. no fed file to - Wash. D.C.

Subj: Anti-Castro Activities

FBI 13 April 1963, #MM 105-1360 (Miami)
Subject: DRE

Loose Documents - no. notes.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

Palmer 8/7/78

Duney Perez Alamo - 201-334081
DDO - 2 Volumes + 1 pkg, DCD documents
1 Volume C1/0A

Volume I-DDO

Deletions - sealed envelopes

① FBI - 23 Jan. 1962 - #105-2878 - Subj: Military & Naval Matters - Cuba

② FBI - 26 Jan 1964 - #105-8130 (Miami) S: Manuel Duasso

③ FBI - 29 Jan 1973, #105-20913 (Miami) S: Partido Revolucionario Del Pueblo

21 Oct. 1971, #105-20202 (Miami) S: Directorio Revolucionario (DR)

④ FBI - 14 Aug. 1973, Cable from Director, FBI, S: DR (no file #)

23 June 1973, #105-20202 (Miami) S: DR

⑤ FBI - 12 Sept 1963 - MM 105-20202 (Miami) S: DR

24 Aug 1973- Cable from Director, FBI, S: DR (no file #)

⑥ FBI - 6 March 1974 - #105-21596 (Miami) S: Rafael Colon. Explosion at Oasis motel, Avo Avrainville, France, 2 Aug 1973.

13 Feb. 1974 - #105-20202 (Miami) - S: DR

16 Jan 1974 - #105-2856 (Miami), S: Orlando Bosch Avila

⑦ FBI - 27 Feb 1974 - #105-4953 (Miami): S: Duney Pio Perez Alamo

⑧ FBI - 9 July 1974, Cable from Dir. FBI, S: Bomb Explosion in front of Cuban Embassy, Paris, France, July 3, 1974

⑨ FBI - 26 July 1974, #105-1953 (Miami) S: Dunney Pio Perez Alamo

⑩ FBI - 31 July 1974, #105-21947 (Miami), S: Acción Cubana (AC)

⑪ FBI - 8 May 1975, #105-4953 (Miami), S: Dunney Pio Perez Alamo

⑫ FBI - 3 Dec 1974, #105-4953 (Miami) S: " " "

⑬ FBI - 4 Nov. 1976 - Cable from Dir. FBI, S: Bombing of Cubana Airlines DC-8 near Barbados, West Indies, Oct 6, 1976

0003604

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Palmer 8/7/78

Dunney Perez

to estatilish the location of operational Contacta

CI/OA- 1 Volume
Dunney Perez Alamo - C-33408.

1965 Juformation

Deletions - 1 sealed envelope, Office of Security
Qunsstigative report & Polygraph.

No notes

DCD Documents - no notes. 1961 info.

0003606


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

Palmer 8/8/78

Francisco Rodriguez Tamayo - 201-293114

DDO records

201 file - 1 Volume

DCD documents -1 pkg.

Loose Documents - 1 pkg.

Volume 1- 201 file DDO

Interagency deletions - sealed envelopes

(1) FBI, 16 July 1959, (New York) S: Anti-Fidel Castro activities

(2) FBI, 22 Oct 1959, #105-1891 (Miami) S: Francisco Rodriguez Tamayo

2 Sept 1959, (Atlanta) S: Anti Fidel Castro activities (FRT)

(3) FBI - 6 May 1960, #105-1891, S: FRT

14 March 1960 #105-1891 (Miami) S: FRT

(4) FBI - 3 May 1961, #105-1891 (Miami) S: FRT

13 March 1961, #105-1891 (Miami) S: FRT

27 Dec. 1960, #105-1891 (Miami) S: FRT

(5) FBI - 23 Jan 1964, #105-1891 (Miami) S: FRT

16 Oct. 1963, #105-1891 (Miami) S: FRT

(6) 26 Sept 1960, " " "

29 June 1959, #109, 584 (Wash. D.C.) S: Anti-Fidel Castro Activities

11 Aug. 1960, #105-1792 (Miami) S: Francisco Valentin Perez y Perez

23 July 1963, #105-1891 (Miami) S: FRT

(7) INS - 21 June 1968, #CO105.3-C, S: Your CSCI-316/02115-68 ltd.

7 June 1968, FRT aka Nicolas Diaz

(8) FBI - 28 Oct 1968, #105-1891 (Miami) S: FRT

(9) FBI- 10 Feb. 1969, #105-15774 (Miami) S: Re Connections w/ Cuban Power

(10) 3 FBI documents, 28 Nov 1969, 22 July 1969, 12 March 1969 #105-1871 (Miami)

Subjects: FRT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

Palmer ②
8/8/78
Rodriguez Tamayo

Personality File Action Request - 23 Feb. 1961

Rodriguez a member of FRD in 1961
#201-293114. DPOB 1935, Cuba

Cable 6. Dec 1960

To: JMGOLD From: Director: OUT 99988

FBI report from: Francisco Bestard, former G-2 agent, revealed. Rodriguez, aka El Mexicano, on 4 colleagues working with Diaz Lanz group. Volunteered provide Cuban G-2 following info:

1. Who financing Diaz Lanz group in Cuba.
2. Location of arms in Cuba.
3. Names of Diaz Lanz group in Cuba.
4. Locations outside Cuba where materials are stored
5. Place, date, times plane departures for Cuba.
6. General plans of Counter revolution.

FRT stated reports would furnish sufficient proof to put subjects in prison. Wanted $5000 for report on who was person in Cuba financing Counter revolution. FRT stated only reason he was in U.S. because he faced a 30 year prison sentence in Cuba.

Another report indicates a female friend of Diaz Lanz, working at miami airport, also G-2 agent. Suggest Diaz Lanz be cautioned.

SECRET

0003608


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

Pelman
8/8/78

Rodriguez Tamayo

22 March 1963

Memo. To Director, FBI, from DDP
Subject: Ismerevico Rodriguez Tamayo, aka "El mexicano".
An untested source told CIA representative on Dec 1962 that FRT was responsible for the imprisonment of Roberto Perez Crusat. Source was imprisoned with Perez in Principe prison. Perez said Major Efigenio Armejeiras told him FRT was a paid agent of GOC in Miami. Perez operated a few days later.

Cable 30 May 1968
To Director from Caracas
CI/RASH/14 advised F arrested using false passport - Nicolas Diaz but actually FRT, "a gangster long sought by the FBI". Source said he had come to Venezuela to assassinate unknown target for #15,000.

DCD - 1 document - no notes. Some info on #3 above.

0003609

Loose Documents - 1 pkg.

Dietetions - 1 sealed envelope

FBI 30 June 1959 - (New York) S: Dr. Alberto Henriquez. Vasquez - Anti-Fidel Castro Activitie

17. Dec. 1959- #105-36449 (N.Y), S: FRT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

Palmer 8/8/78

Rodriguez Tomayo.

(Detetions Cont'd)

FBI-19 May 1960, #100-10838 (Miami) S: Jorgeh Manuel Paula

11 Aug. 1960, #105-1792 (Miami) S: Francisco Valentin Perez y Perez

30 Sept 1965, #92-726 (Miami) S: Frank Lang "Lefty" Rosenthal, et al.

No notes - 1965 + 1968 information - Rodriguez may be connected w/ Black Power group.

0003610

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

Palmer 1
8/8/78

Juan Manuel Salvat Raque
DDO files - 1 Volume - 201-286051.
CI/OA - 1 Volume plz loose documents #C-86065
Deletions - sealed envelopes.
① FBI - 26 Dec 1956, no file #, Subject: Roque Salvat, Manuel
② FBI - 13 Apr. 1963, #105-1360 (Miami) S: DRE
③ INS - 30 March 1963, #A-12 421546, S: Notice of Prevention of Departure.
④ FBI - 10 Mar 1967, #105-3348, S: Foreign Political Matters - Cuba
⑤ FBI - 6 June 1968, no file (Miami), S: " " " "

Volume I.

① Personality File Action Request - 19 Oct. 1960.
Manuel Salvat. Roque - 201-286051.
DBOB - March 27, 1940, Sagua, Cuba 0003611

② News article - Miami News - Hal Hendrix - no date "Red Terrorism Rules at Havana Elsiverisity"
Three Uni. students escaped after hiding in Havana 2 months: Alberto Muller, Ernesto Hernandez Travieso & Manuel Salvat. Escape possible under protection of Brazilian Embarry
All three blamed Maj. Rolando Cubella Cubala, Costros personal choice to head the University Student Federation, and his aider of "murdering" the autonomy of the university. The three, on arrival in Miami, offerered their services to Cuban Remocrate Revolutionary Front - want to organize an anti-Communist student org. within the front.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

Palmer 8/8/78

Salvat

External Asset Report - undated

Salvat is National Coordinator clandestine ops., POA extended to 16 Feb. 1961, (sic) FRG Part II submitted 1 nov 1961; (sic) OA pending. Salary $275 month. Subject has extensive training - should have highest priority for Infil. Ops.

6 April 1960 Cable to Director from Havana Salvat first consern/AMPALM/1. Salvat in hiding in Havana - thinks he may be picked up by DIER in connection with his outspoken support of Conte Aguero. Ampalm // francesa is Elena Yalla, a local embassy employee.

3 Sept. 1960 Cable To: Director From: MASH. IN 47347 Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) to be formed 5 Sept 1960. DRE Committee to travel to a Latin American country to make public announcement of formation of group. Propaganda Head of DRE is Manuel Salvat.

13 Sept. 1960 Cable to Director From: MASH. DRE to be affiliates not member AMRASP. Mueller & Salvat also members of AMRASP student group.

SECRET

0003612


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECRET

Palmer 8/8/78

Salvat

Nov. 4, 1960

Cable to Director Tri MASH

MASH planning infiltrate first DRE team Havana Province by 10 nov. 1960 in order to be present when student general strike occurs on 14 nov. Long range objective of team is to organize anti. Castro, student, propaganda & harassment force within student circles. Salvat & Mueller on this team.

POA granted 3 nov. 1960 for Salvat.

May 9, 1961 Cable to Bell In: JMWAVE

Salvat arrested in Cuba about 18 April.

His true identity did not become known to authorities & following interrogation & investigation, he was released.

0003613

PRQ Part II 1 nov. 1961

Care Officer - Ross Crozier (Noemayr)

Salvat has met Oliver H. Corbuston on one or two occasions & knows him as Douglas Jupton, Salvats. PM duties will be limited, but involve some sabotage & demolition as well as distribution & organization of clandestine-guerilla groups within Cuba.

When DRE leader, Alberto Mulla was in Sierra Maestra with 400 guerillas, CIA failed to support effort with material air drops.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

4

Palmer 8/8/88

Salivat.

With their leader abandoned & in jeopardy, Salvat wrote to friends in U.S. that he would kill Pitt personnel involved if anything happened to Muller.

11 3 Feb. 1962 Dispatch UFGW-796
Operational Approval granted Salvat effective 23 January 1962.

12 8 March 1962 Station Asset Report

Salvat is action type, considered one of the bulwarks of the free Cuban student world. Has infiltrated Cuba & worked in underground, undergone arrest & interrogation, freed & returned to Miami, infiltrated again on three attempts that failed latter part of 1961. He is almost legendary among Cuban high school & university youth.

13 12 March 1968 - Request for Cancellation. Salvat no longer of Operational interest to CIA.

Loose Documents - no. notes

0003614

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

Palmer
8/8/78

Salvat

Volume - Cl/0A

Manuel Salvat. Roque. - C-86065 -

No notes - redundant.

0003615

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

Palmer
8/8/78

Jose Ignacio Basco
DCD File 103981- 1 volume
Loose Documents - 1. pRg..
DCD Docrements - Ippy.

① 16 Aug 1962 Information Report #00-K-3,233, 366
Subject: Christian Democratic movement (MDC).
Source: Cuban national precently in exile in us.

After of cilure of Bay of Pigs, MOC began
to split into factions. In October 1961.........

Repin Fernandez Badue aka "Lucas"
arrived from Cuba & stated he was as
representative of the clandestine MDC movement
in Cuba.mirs. Cardona accepted hue
Credentials assegrail line to the CRC Council

MDC prile consists of 3 groups. One,
headed by Jose Ignacio. Rasco has the largest
following & is organyed in Miami, N. Y., Chicago...
Venquela + Cuba. Another group is headed
by Melcher Gaston - this group broke away.
after invasion. but is now coming back to
original MDC, third group headed by
Laureans Batista who is ales lbringing his
group back to original MDC: Batista is
presently precedent of MDC. & three groupe
believed will be reunited by Aug 1962...
render Batista's leadership...

0003616

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

Palmer
8/8/78

Basco.

@ Loose Documents - no notes

DCD Documents

@ 12 Aug. 1960 memo to Chief, Contact Division
from: Chief: N.4 Office
The 10 June 1960 issue of N.Y. Times carried a description of FRD & listed membership as follows:
Capt. Manuel Artime - MRR
Dr. Justo Carillo - Montecristi Group
Dr. Aureliano Sanchez Arango - Havana Uni. faction
Dr. Antonio Varona - Autentico party
Dr. Jose Ignacio Rasco - MDC

SECRET

0003617


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

Palmer
8/9/78

Amador Odio
Loose Documenta

Deletions- sealed envelope - FBI document
22 April 1954 - # 109-43 (New York) Subj: Carlos Prío Socarrás, et al.

03 January 1966.

Memo to: Offices in Charge, INS
To: Deputy Director for Plans
Subj: Odio Padron, Amador

DOB: June 1913, CIT: Cuba

Case Number 500012

Info- received 10 March 1954 from "a usually reliable source" states Amador Odio operated Expreso Tráfico y Transporte, S.A. in Havana. Company had been importing arms for the opposition & shipping them to various points in the interior of Cuba. Odio's house was raided on 3 March 1954 by military intelligence because of allegations that a clandestine radio operating from that address. Late that night, Odio's sons, Cesar Odio and Cesar Francis were given asylum in Guatemalan Embassy in Havana.

0003618

10 March 1954. Report. # HKH-738 from a controlled American, Havana Cuba. De basis for memo to INS (#, above) but contains additional information that Amado Dodio also sought asylum in the Guatemalan embassy & left for Guatemala on 10 March 1954.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

* SECRET

Palmer
8/9/78

Amador Ordio

Report further states that Aureliano Sanchez Arango was in Odio home shortly before the said, but due to ineptitude of Cuban military police, Sanchez escaped. Dr. Raquel del Valle, professor of the Instituto de Segunda Enseñanza was arrested.

PH

0003619

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET Talmer 8/9/78

Arnesto Rodriguez, Si.

DDO.

201-275643 file - 1 pkg

DCD. documents - 1 pkg

No. Deletione

DDO file............

① 1 Feb. 1962 Despatch (poor copy) between JMWAVE and Chief, WHD - Re: Cancellation of Provisional Operational Approval. Among those listed is Arnesto Napoleon Rodriguez Gonzales.

② 17 April 1961

Provisional Operational Approval granted 8 Apr. 1960 and extended to 8 Oct. 1961.

③ 24 August 1960. Despatch from COS/Havana. Chief: WHD, Info: COB, JMASH -> # HKHA-6718 Conversation with AMJUTE/1 (Rodriguez) signed by Gerald L. Jardyne

Rodriguez gives info. to case officer on information regarding anti-Castro military with which he is in contact. Says old military groups, about 10,000 strong, have organized to oppose Castro. Sent a representative to Miami to offer support to Tony Verona of the FRD.

0003620

④ 6 April 1960 - Request for Approval on Investigative Action Report Rodriguez. To be used in audio surveillance operations.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

Galmer
8/9/78
Arnesto Rodriguez

DPOB: 15 August 1891, Habana, Cuba.
#
DCD Documents: no notes





0003621

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

Democratic Revolutionary Front - FRD.
DDO - Five Volumes:

Volume I

1.  Dec 15, 1960 Dispatch #UFGA-465
    To: Chief. WHD. for: COBT SMWAVE
    Subj: AMOT-2 Sub Sources in Havana.

    Osvaldo J. Mendoza - uses pseudonym "Napoleon". Address 866. Calle Zanja, Instr. Elbron,
    Havana

Palmer
8/9/78

0003622

2.  22 Feb. 1961 Dispatch to Chief: WH Div from Chief of Base/JMWAVE
    AMOT reports on Friends of Democratic Cuba, Inc. in New Orleans, includes:

    "Although we acknowledge the 'lack of understanding' of some Cubans and the ambitions which grow
    in exile, we believe that the establishment of this Company was thought up by Mr. Durham
    and Mr. Banister to obtain personal benefits with the approval of Mr. Arcacha. We also doubt
    that this Company received no donations of any type and I believe that a thorough investigation
    of the funds of the stevedor's union and the books of the New Orleans Exporters Company
    should be conducted by authorized persons, and we suppose that interesting developments should
    come from this matter, maybe pointing not only to personal gain by its promoters but also to the
    evasion of federal taxes of the U.S. Government."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

Valmer
8/9/78
FRD

Volume II

Deletions - 1 sealed envelope - FBI, 19 Apr 62 (Miami).
Re: Camilo Cienfuegos Gorriaran, #105-1236
no notes - AMOT, *intelligence reports*, mainly from Cuba

Volume III - no notes. Cuban intelligence reports from AMOTS. Same for Vol. IV & Vol V.

(Note: These are wrong documents for CRE/FRD. DDO attempting to secure correct documents 8/9/78)

SECRET

0003623


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# SECRET

Palmer 8/9/78

# JURE

DDO - 4. Volumes..

## Volume 1

Detetions - sealed envelopes. & Six FSI enneopes - all F.B.I documents

① 11 July 1962. Despatch UFG-1223 (? poor copy.) Report from Cuban businessman on Planned Formation of a new group by Manuel Ray Rivero. Manuel Ray, Felipe Pazos, Raul Chibas and Ramon Barquin, among others, planning to form new, yet unnamed, organization. Ray has sent Rogelio Cisneros & Meanie to contact various exile personalities for this purpose.

Ray hoping to get financial assistance from CRC for his new group. Feels CRC is worn out organization but good place to be while new group gains momentum.

② July 25, 1962, Cable to Director from San Juan. 23 July 1962 press interview - Ray announces formation of JURE & include all "popular" factions outside Cuba in an effort to restore splintered movements into effective working organization.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# SECRET

Palmer
8/9/78

JURE

Volume II.

Deletions - sealed envelopes

FBI-HHL HH1 State-11.

Eleven FBI envelopes - 2 St. Dept.

1. Jan. 4, 1963. Cable. To; Director Jr: SMWAVE IN 44301

Following paragraphs reflect present WAVE position re: enumerated groups & their activities.

A. JURE WAVE has no contact or interest this group and intends avoid any involvement. Group only peripherally active WAVE area.

2. Report dtd 13 Dec 1963

From: London, England. # OEL-36,849, Leroy T. Wadsworth.

Contains report dtd 29 Nov 1963 stating that JURE members met in Los Caracas, Venezuela from 21-23 Nov. 1963 & worked on plans to mount an insurrection in spring of 1964. In attendance were Manuel Ray, Raul Chibas, Rogelio Cisneros, Jose Gomez.

0003625

Volume III

Deletions - 3 sealed envelopes of FBI documents.

No. notes - See Manuel Ray Rivero file review.

Volume IV

Deletions - sealed envelopes. Twelve envelopes FBI

FBI - HHL HH State: 11 Two envelopes State Dept


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)