# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System
### Identification Form
Date: 10/2/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10111-10051
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 012509

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 09/24/1978
PAGES: 8
SUBJECTS: CIA, METHODOLOGY
OSWALD, LEE HARVEY - RUSSIAN PERIOD, RETURN TO U.S.
KGB
GOLITSIN, ANATOLI
DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 1A
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/01/2003
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Photocopy of note attached. Box #:222.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

KENNEDY

012504

# INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1. Identifying Information:

Name Donald Deneslya

Address 12508 Knowledge Lane

City/State Bowie, Maryland 20715

Date September 24, 1978

Place North Arlington, Virginia

Telephone (301)464-2361

Date of Birth

M or S M

Social Security

Spouse

Children

2. Physical Description:

Height

Color Eyes

Hair

Weight

Special Characteristics

Ethnic Group

3. Personal History:

a. Present Employment: Self-employed real estate agent

Address Above

Telephone Above

b. Criminal Record

 1. Arrests

 2. Convictions

4. Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

![Signature of James P. Kelly]

Investigator James P. Kelly

Date

NW 50955. DocId: 32263956 Page 2 Form #4-B


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name Donald Deneslya Date 9-24-78 Time 1:00 p.m.
Address 12508 Knowledge Lane Place North Arlington, Va.
Bowie, Maryland 20715

Interview: Subject was directed to the writer by former Chief
of Counterintelligence of the CIA. He is currently working
as a real estate agent in Maryland but is planning shortly
to leave for Oslo, Norway, where he will become involved in
the importation and sale of American automobiles.

He was employed by the Central Intelligence Agency
from 1961 to 1964. During this period he became involved
as Administrative Assistant for a Russian defector, Golitsin,
also known as "Stone." In this capacity he was to spend
approximately five hours each day assisting Stone in the pre-
paration of a book. His "cover" was that he (Donald) was
a student at Georgetown University, although Stone knew that
he was CIA. He described this work under the crypotonym,
"AELADLE project," "AE" being the prefix relating to Soviet
Russia.

When Stone, or Golitsin as Donald referred to him,
had been processed by the CIA and his bona fides accepted. He
was domiciled in a house in the McLean area of Virginia. He

Interviewer Signature

Typed Signature James P Kelly

Date transcribed 9-28-78

By: br Form #4-A

NW 50955 DocId:32263956 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Donald Deneslya Interview
Page 2:

says that Golitsin was given a settlement of approximately $200,000.00 and provided with Donald as an A.A. and guards. Golitsin was first given the name "John Stone." His wife was called "Irene" and his daughter "Kitty." The CIA had told him that he could write a book.

It was Donald's feeling that Golitsin was a very intelligent defector. His knowledge of leaks from Western Intelligence sources was phenomenal. He turned up traitors in many Western countries, including but not limited to: Wennerstrom in Sweden: two West German Generals, and Willy Brandt's secretary; a high-level French leak in NATO (Cf., DeVosjoli information) and gave the CIA information which led to the unmasking of "Kim" Philby, then the number two man in British Intelligence, as a Soviet agent. Donald said that Golitsin had been stationed in Vienna in 1954 and then brought back to the Soviet and placed in the section of Soviet (KGB) Intelligence which dealt with America and the Western countries. In this capacity he was able to read the material which these traitors had been sending to the Soviet side. He had an incredible memory and had been planning to "come over" to our side for some time so he prepped himself on things which would be to our interest to know. He defected in 1961 in Helsinki. Howard Osborne went over to Helsinki to bring him back to the United States. One of

NW 50955 DocId:32263956 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Donald Deneslya Interview
Page 3.

the functions of Golitsin in Moscow had been the reading
of high-level American Intelligence Reports which convinced
him that there was a "mole" in the CIA, but he could not
identify this person by name. While he was working for
Golitsin, Golitsin dictated a long letter describing the
deficiencies in Western Intelligence agencies which he was
going to give to Robert Kennedy. It was Golitsin's feeling
that the Soviets were winning the Intelligence War.

He also told the Americans that the KGB, prior to
1960 had been talking about the assassination of Richard
Nixon should he become President.

Golitsin's principal handler was a Colonel Leonard
Weigner, a foreign-born agent whose parents had come out of
Russia through Mancuria. Weigner had been in Air Force
Intelligence. He became involved in the Pirigov case in
1948-49. This involved a Russian MIG pilot who defected and
brought his plane intact to the West. Weigner seemed to
get along very well with Golitsin. Others who knew him at
the time were Howard Osborne, now retired; Ed Knowles; Dave
Murphy (after 1963); John McMahon, a side-kick to Weigner
out of SR-CI and Tennent Bagley, aka "Pete" Bagley, who was
head of Counter Intelligence in the Soviet Russia Division.
He also mentioned Ted Poling, a Deputy to Bagley in SR.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Donald Deneslya Interview
Page 4.

In November 1962 Donald received a strange request from Golitsin. Rudolf Nureyev was appearing in Chicago, Illinois and there was an ad in the paper that tickets were available at a certain bookstore. He wanted Deneslya to contact the store and find out where Nureyev was staying. Deneslya had heard that the KGB was planning to kidnap or kill Nureyev.

Deneslya told the writer that a Charles Bohr, a CIA doctor, was the case officer on Golitsin. Bohr was a psychiatrist. Deneslya said that he never heard anyone even remotely suggest that Golitsin was "paranoid" until he heard about the testimony of ex-CIA officer John Hart before HSCA. It was his feeling that in 1963 the Agency had great respect for Golitsin because of the information which he was providing. There were times when they would get exasperated with him because he would sometimes go over the heads of the people he was dealing with if he didn't think they were reacting to his information. Golitsin was apprehensive about Soviet world intentions and made no bones about it. He knew how widely the Soviets had penetrated other intelligence agencies. He told us about Felfe (ph.) and Klemens who had penetrated the Gehlen Organization of West German Intelligence which was the same as penetrating the CIA because the Gehlen group was an extension of CIA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# Donald Deneslya Interview
Page 5.

From February to July 1963, Golitsin went to England to advise the British on the extent of Philby's damage. Deneslya says that when he returned to this country the attitude of some people in the SR Division had changed towards Golitsin. He detected a hostility towards Golitsin which had not been there before.

When Donald first came into the CIA he worked in the Foreign Documents Division. Among the various types of reports which came across his desk were "contact" reports which filtered in from the many contact divisions which the Agency had around the world. One in particular caught his eye, circa July-August 1963. It concerned an American re-defector, a Marine, who would be returning to the United States "with his family." This ex-Marine had worked in Minsk in a radio factory. The report, which Deneslya says came out of New York City, did not mention this defector by name. This, in itself, was not unusual because the Contact Division liked to conceal sources. He said the report identified this person as a former Marine "cpl." or "cpt.", which Deneslya felt could mean corporal or captain. He was certain they were talking about Lee Oswald.

Deneslya said we could find this report probably in the Industrial Registry for the radio factory in Minsk. He said there was only one radio factory in Minsk. This Registry


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# Donald Deneslya Interview
Page 6.

is maintained by the CIA at Langley, Virginia headquarters
and he thinks it was on the second floor in corridor "H."
The fact that the contact report was out of New York was
not significant because the report could have originated
in Moscow and was rerouted and rewritten in New York, again
to conceal the point of origin.

He also told me that it was his experience that some-
times the Agency, when they want to surface material in the
"overt" side of the CIA, will say that it came from that side
when in fact it did not.

Deneslya said that it was also his information that the
Russians sent over "dispatched" agents from time to time.
He recalls that at one time there was discussion of an agent
who was caught because the Russians stamped his passport
twice at different pages with the same stamp but with a dif-
ferent date and this game him away. He did not recall the
agent's name.

Deneslya said that the Committee should determine who
made out the #201 on Oswald--who opened it and what division
they were in. He said that about a year after he gave testi-
mony before the Senate Intelligence Committee (1975) he saw
a report in the newspapers that someone in the CIA had recom-
mended that Lee Harvey Oswald be contacted.

Donald gave the writer a written authorization to in-
spect his Senate Intelligence Committee testimony.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Sept 24, 1979

I the undersigned Donald E Damselya do hereby authorize James B Kelly full access to my testimony given in October 1975 before the Senate Committee on Intelligence.

Donald E Damselya


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)