# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10498
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 8
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 1

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
Docld:32239506 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107
Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10498

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE : 09/26/77
PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
PARISI, LOUIS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.
SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.
STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.
CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.
HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

## Select Committee on Assassinations

### U.S. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

December 11, 1978

Major Raymond J. Brennan
Administrative Officer
New Jersey Division of State Police
P. 0. Box 7068
West Trenton, N. J. 08625

Dear Major Brennan:

This is to officially notify you that the services of Detective
Sergeant Louis Parisi with the Select Committee on Assassinations will
terminate at the close of business on Friday, December 22, 1978.

Your letter to me of October 4, 1978 billed the Committee for Mr.
Parisi's services through September 22, 1978.

At your earliest convenience, kindly bill the Committee for the
period September 23 through December 22, 1978.

I'm sure that the New Jersey State Police will hear from Chairman
Stokes concerning Mr. Parisi's valuable contribution to the Committee.
In the meantime, I wish to thank you for your cooperation.

Sincerely yours,

![Signature of Thomas Howarth]

Thomas Howarth
Deputy Staff Director
and Budget Officer

TH:ht

NW 88326
Docld:32239506 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Louis Parisi                      | September 26, 1977                                   |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 070 34 8584                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Investigator   | $7,236              |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.
2. Special or Select Committee: Authority -H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date__________ September 26, 1977

![signature of Louis Stokes]

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration.

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________

Monthly Annuity $__________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee.

NW 88326
Docld:32239506 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.
SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.
STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.
CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.
HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

# Select Committee on Assassinations

## U.S. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 18, 1978

The Honorable Frank Thompson, Jr.
Chairman
Committee on House Administration
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

I have approved a salary increase of $1,980.00 per year effective April 1, 1978 for Louis Parisi, a staff investigator for the Select Committee.

As Mr. Parisi's basic salary and benefits are paid by the New Jersey State Police, his additional salary from the House is paid in the form of a monthly expense allowance per prior agreement with your staff and the Clerk of the House. This was to avoid Mr. Parisi from earning retirement benefits from both the Federal Government and the State of New Jersey.

Accordingly, Mr. Parisi's monthly expense allowance will increase from $625.00 to $790.00 effective April 1, 1978.

Sincerely,

![Signature of Louis Stokes]

LOUIS STOKES
Chairman

LS/thw

NW 88326
Docld:32239506 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer

FROM: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel, Staff Director

DATE: April, 11, 1978

RE: Salary Adjustments

Please increase the salaries of Louis Parisi and Ida Jane Ross seven percent (7%) effective April 1, 1978.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

September 27, 1977

The Honorable Frank Thompson, Jr.
Chairman
Committee on House Administration
H-326 Capitol
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

The Select Committee on Assassinations has hired Mr. Louis Parisi as a staff investigator at an annual salary of $28,000.

In order to protect Mr. Parisi's pension and other benefits with the New Jersey State Police, he will be carried on the State's payroll while he is assigned to the Select Committee.

New Jersey will bill the Committee at an annual rate of $20,764 so that Mr. Parisi's stipend from The House of Representatives will be $7,236.

Mr. Parisi will be working full time for the Select Committee and will perform only those duties assigned by the Committee.

Sincerely,

Louis Stokes
Chairman

cc: Finance Office
LS/th


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

MEMORANDUM

TO: Professor Blakey

FROM: Edward M. Evans
Chief Investigator, MLK

DATE: September 22, 1977

SUBJECT: Louis Parisi, Investigator, MLK

Mr. Parisi has agreed to take a position with us as Staff Investigator assigned to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Task Force.

He will start September 26, 1977 at $28,000.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

10/26/77

Parisi is to be a
member of the staff as of
9/26/77, but his salary will
not be included on our
payroll. He will be
reimbursed by voucher
each month to cover
his salary. (Per Tom
Hawarth.)

eh

NW 88326
DocId:32239506 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

[ ] I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

[ ] I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress. (Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

![Date]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)