# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

![text: A10]

The CIA has publicly stated that it never interviewed Lee Harvey Oswald. Numerous allegations have arisen over the years since President Kennedy's assassination that Oswald either had been or should have been debriefed by the CIA upon his return from the Soviet Union since he appeared to be in a position to provide useful information due to the lengthy period of his residence and employment there. The claim that no records exist which indicate a debriefing of Oswald has stimulated speculation that Oswald may have had some kind of Agency relationship either because the contact was not reported through normal channels or because the CIA communicated with Oswald in another manner which alleviated the necessity for a routine debriefing.

The HSCA attempted to determine: 1) whether Oswald was, in fact, interviewed by the CIA upon his return from the Soviet Union; 2) whether there was an official report of the interview if one was conducted; and 3) to assess why Oswald would not have been interviewed if that was, in actuality/finality, the case.

![scribbled return to CIA notice]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

In response to the Warren Commission's request of...

John A. McCone, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, submitted

an affidavit stating that the CIA had had no relationship

of any kind with Lee Harvey Oswald. The affidavit, dated 18 May 1964,
certifies that "the Agency never contacted him, interviewed him,

talked with him or received or solicited any reports or information

from him, or communicated with him, directly or indirectly, in
(J. L. Schindler, 570, 17A 566)
any other manner." In Melone's testimony before the Warren Commission,

on May 14, 1964, gave the same assertion as to the Agency's lack of contact

with Oswald. When McCone was asked specifically whether the CIA had had

any contact with Oswald during his stay in the Soviet Union,

McCone replied, "No, not to my knowledge, nor to the knowledge

of those who would have been in a position to have made such
(Warren Commission Hearings, Exhibit 5H 123)
contact...nor according to any record we have. He also responded

negatively to the question of whether the CIA had any personal contact

with Oswald subsequent to his return to the United States. (Ibid.)

-2-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

wis it, or was it not in response to Commission hiring work

Meloni's affidavit was partially instigated by the appearance of an article on 28 February 1964 in the Northern Virginia Sun which made the following allegation:
"State Department records show that Oswald had several meetings with the CIA representative in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow."

During this period, the assassin was seeking to renounce his citizenship.

One State Department cable, No. 234, dated November 2, 1959, reports that Oswald was interviewed by the CIA and other embassy officials (CIA FOTA Document #609-786).

The CIA memoranda reporting this information both internally and to the Warren Commission advises that this allegation is totally unfounded.

(Ibid. and CIA FOIA Document #610-263). The memos explain that the reference to the State Department "cable" is erroneous and that the document to which the article was referring is undoubtedly a State Department "despatch", No. 234, which was dated 2 November 1959 from the U.S. embassy in Moscow. (Ibid.) (not a new paragraph).

According to the internal memorandum, the despatch contained no statement n reference that Richard E. Snyder, who was the Second Secretary of the

-3-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

11.5. imbassy in Mracow and the only pusor mentioned by make in te despatel, del any CIA connection (LIA FOIL 161-75).

However, the memorandum rekaowded that wolt Sayder and Edward

4. Freers, the State Depertmest official who signed the despated, had hed some past connection with the Agency. Snyder sd been unployed by the CIA for less ther one year in 1950 when he resigned in adu to assure a position with the State Selpantrest Although the CIA'S treasted awa records indicate the destry of itgeney interest in Freers, he was never extually employed by the CIA. (His.)

-4-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

The record of the Central Intelligence Agency throughout the years is consistent with the position stated to the Warren Commission that the CIA never interviewed Lee Harvey Oswald. 1 February 1972 letter from Bernard Fensterwald to the Assistant Director of the CIA requests any records pertaining to a "debriefing" of Oswald.

By or on behalf of the CIA following his return from the Soviet Union. This request for information contrary to the Agency's previously stated position appears to be generated by a statement made by

Richard Helms on 14 April 1971 before the American Society of Newspaper Editors that “...if there is a chance that if a private citizen travelling abroad has acquired foreign information that can be useful to the American policymaker, we are certainly going to try to interview (CONFOTA FOU # 961-427-A6).

Jim Fensterwald cites Oswald as appearing to be such a person.

There follows an exchange of letters between Fensterwald and Angus M. Thuermer, who was the Assistant to the Director of the CIA in which Thuermer refers Fensterwald to the testimony of McCone and

-5-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Helms before the Warren Commission. Helms states that the testimony

is still relied; therefore the information you request does not exist (can FOTH
LICP962-927-AN)

Thurmer: When Leaderveld responds to this answer with a request for

Thurmer's own position with respect to the records rather than "conclu-

sions based upon statements of persons other than yourself." Thurmer

ends the exchange by stating that his previous response was

"a simple declarative statement in the best possible entirety that

the Agency never had any contact with Oswald and that, therefore,

the information sought by you in your letter of February 9th does

not exist and never did exist." (CIA FOTH LCC #976-927-AP).

In April of 1978, the HSCA requested that the CIA provide a state-

ment as to whether Lee Harvey Oswald was ever contacted, spoken to

or interviewed by anyone directly or indirectly representing the CIA.
(HSCA #1, vol. IX, pg 426, 04/19/78)

The Agency responded in the same manner it had used in responding to
previous
requests from other sources, by way of referring the committee

to the testimony of Helms and McCone before the Warren Commission and to Mohri's
affidavit denying any Agency contact with Oswald. (CIA Statements Regarding and Con-
nections with Lee Harvey Oswald, 1975-1979, p. 5).

6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

A 25 November 1963 CIA Memorandum (may be located in HA’s

For file as CIA FOTA #435-173-A) is the only documented evidence

of any CIA interest in interviewing Oswald. The memorandum, written by the author of the memo,

(Thomas B. Casasin), stated: "as soon as I had heard Oswald's

name, I recalled that as Chief of the 6 Branch I had discussed sometimes with

in Summer
1960- with the then Chief and Deputy Chief of the 6 Research

Section the laying on of interviews through (KUTUM) or other suitable

channels. At the moment I don’t recall if this was discussed while

Oswald and his family were en route to this country or if it was

after their arrival." (CIA FUIA Document #435-173-A).

(Casasin) was interviewed by the HSCA staff investigator on August 17, 1978.

In this interview, he stated that he worked as chief of the 6 Branch

(Was also Interview of CIA Employee
5/17/73, P.1)

from September 1960 until his reassignment in September 1962. He advised that the function of the 6 Branch was to amass information

from defectors concerning details about Soviet life which would


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

then the weed to assist perens working inside the Sorid thaion (Ibid.)

The 6 Branch also relied upon the LIA's Contacts Bursion and

the FBT as sources of this type of information, as well as collecting information from the State Department and the press concer Americans in the Soviet Union. (Ibid., p.4)

Awing this interview (Casasia) resection of the dission rectioned in the 25 November 1963 nemo was that it took place (Ibid., p.4).

during the last days of his traile with the 6 Brat his would have preced the discussion sometime in July 1962. He stated that the date sted for the discussion in the mens must have deer erroneous as de was thevelling with his family between veget in the summer of 1960 and did not begin his assignment with

the 6. Branch, until September of that your (Ibid., pp. 4-5).

(Casasia) stated that at the time the Oswall use wes discussed, de assured that Oswald must have been sent not of the Soviet Union by the KBB. Therefore exercising caution, he did not attempt.

8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

to debrief Oswald that suggested that Oswald be debriefed by(*KUTLAMP*)
which represented the office of Operations as office which debriefed
persons through, its Contacts Division or "other suitable channels"
by which, the meant the FBI or the Immigration and Naturalization
(Ibid., pp.4-5)
Service. He did not believe that this had been done at
that time because this type of information would have been routinely
passed in to the CIA and to this section of such a debriefing des-
(Ibid., p. 5)
occurred if whatever information he had on Oswald at the time was in
the form of State Department dispatches. (Ibid.)
In the memorandum, (*Casasia*) states that he told his subordinates
something to the effect of "Don't push too hard to get the information
(*CIA FOIA Document # 435-173-A*).
we need, because this individual looks odd. He explained in the
interview that this statement reflected the CIA's assessment of
Oswald based on the unusual facts that Oswald was permitted by
the Soviets to remain in the USSR and was further permitted to marry
a Soviet citizen (*HSCA Staff Interview of CIA Employee, 8/17/78, p.5*).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

(Lurawis) stated that dis interest in Oswald as expressed in the memorandum was just a lead and that it was not unusual that there (Ibid., p. 9) led [sic] as follow-up regarding a debriefing of Oswald. He wrote no memo at the time of the discussion as it was not customary to write memos regarding leads that were discussed and subsequently dismissed as being unimportant. (Ibid.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

(Walter P. Haitegen), the person to whom (assassin) 25 November 1963. letter was written was the employed by the CIA as chief of (HSLA Staff Interview of CIA Employee, 6/13178 p.1) (Haitigen's recollection was in the Soviet section of the (Paris station) for some. It is addressed in as

interview with HSCA staff members that because of the nature of

(assassin) position under (non-official) cover. (assassin) frequently

wrote informal memos such as the one in FOIA #435-173-A which

were then passed on through the use of cut-outs to the (Paris station). (Ibid.)

These memoranda would then be forwarded to CIA Headquarters.

generally by (Hattigan) however, in this particular instance, Robert L.

(Kempell), who served under (Hattigan) received and forwarded

the memorandum to Headquarters (as (Hattigan) was in the hospital
(Ibid.)

INFORMATION

(Hattigan) expressed the general Agency opinion that had the CIA

wished to contact a returning defector, it would have done so through

-15-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

the Contacts Division of the
Heffoffice of Operations but that it was not standard operating
returning defectors
procedure to interview because this job fell within the FBI's
jurisdiction. (Ibid., p.2).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

T. (Homes) also told the HSCH.
G. Leasasen/ stated that the CIA had a specific interest in Minsk.
As it was known that the city contained some type of special design plants.
That may have involved aviation, nuclear energy or bacteriological warfare. (Interview of CIA employee, pp.5-6). (Cassais) think, although she did not believe that LHO was involved.
He believed that working in any type of security facility, anyone would have been in the area of those plants would have been of interest to the agency. (Ibid., p.4).
However, even with the presence of the design plants, Minsk was not identified as a security or military priority area. (Ibid.).
(Cassais) believed that the CIA maintained a large volume of information on the Minsk radio factory in which Oswald worked. (Ibid.).
Information was stored in the office of research and reporting. This fact was corroborated by another CIA employee. Another former CIA employee, (Donald Deneslys) who worked in the Foreign Documents Division in the Soviet Branch of the Directorate of Intelligence in 1962.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

told the HSCA that she specifically recalled collecting intelligence

regarding the Minsk Radio Plant. (HSCA Interview of CIA Employee, 9/26/78, p.1.).

In fact, (Sereye) claims that, during the summer of 1962, he reviewed

a contact report from representatives of the CIA's New York field

office who interviewed a former Marine who had worked at the

Minsk Radio Plant following his defection to the USSR. (Ibid.) This

person, who (Sereye) believes may have seen Oswald, had been living

with his family in Minsk. (Ibid. (Sereye) advised the Committee that

the contact report was filed in a volume concerning the Minsk Radio Plant

which should be retrievable from the Industrial Registry Branch, that was

then a component of the Office of Central Reference. (As of 1962.)

The HSCA requested that the CIA provide the Committee with the above-

described contact report and the volume of materials concerning the Minsk

Radio Plant. (HSCA

a review of the documents in the volume on

the Minsk Radio Plant revealed that no such contact report existed in that file.
(Cable from CIA to HSCA of 10/17/78,
ARK Doc. #012.023).

14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

the file review did indicate that in 1975, Daniel Schorr had made a similar request and was informed by the CIA that no such report existed. (Ibid.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

The Select Committee on Asrassinations requested that the central

Satelligence Agency provide a written statement indicating whether

whether, from 1958-1963, interviewed or debriefed returning American

defectors to the Soviet Union as a matter of standard operating

(HSCA letter to CIA, 4/5/78).
procedure of The Agency was also requested to indicate the circum-

stances under which an interview would be initiated if such inter-

views were not conducted as standard operating procedure (Ibid.)

The Agency's response indicated that the Counterintelligence Staff

reviewed the files of 117 persons who had "defected" to the USSR

between 1958 and 1963 and who had subsequently returned to the United

(CIA Memorandum B. Hugh Tovar to Special Assistant to ELO for External Oversight, 4/20/78)
States. This review revealed that only ten of the 117 individuals had

been contacted by any component within the CIA

been contacted, and that the CIA had no procedure for the systematic

debriefing of such persons. Instead, the contacts that were initiated ap-

peared to be based on "opportunity and circumstance" (Ibid.).

Another memorandum explained that the CIA had no standard

operating procedure with suspect to debriefing returning American defectors.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

6161

as the Agency relied upon the FBI for reporting the results of interviews.

It may have conducted in connection with its responsibility for internal (CIA Memorandum, Tovar to Special Asst. to RH6 for External Oversight, 5/25/78).
security matters. The agency further stated that there were no manuals or regulations for the period of 1958-1963 which specifically address the subject of American defectors. (Ibid.)

In fact, the ten persons with whom the CIA admitted having had contact did not strictly meet the specific requirements as requested in the H.SCA's request. Several of the ten individuals had not actually defected to the USSR during the period 1958-1963, but had resided (CIA Memo from Tovar, 4/20/75)
there for at least ten years prior to 1958. Three of the ten individuals (Ibid.) returned to the United States and were subsequently debriefed after 1963.

The CIA employee who conducted the research in preparation for the Agency's response told the HSCA that the requirements he had utilized in arriving at his conclusions had been somewhat broader than those requested in order to include all those persons regarded as defectors who were residing in the Soviet Union during the time period in question, rather than just those who actually defected at that time. (HSCA Staff Interview of CIA Employee, 7/26/78).

17


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

The House Select Committee on Assassinations conducted on a review of defectors' files in order to determine whether defectors other than Oswald were routinely debriefed upon their return to the United States. The Committee requested that the CIA provide a list of persons travelling to the Soviet Union during the period from 1958 to 1963, including both visitors and those persons considered by the Agency to be "defectors".

In response, the CIA provided a computer listing of 380 individuals entitled "U.S. Persons Who Have or May Have Defected to the USSR Between 1958-1963".

(Attachment to 27 January 75 memo, E. Hugh Tovar to S.A. KAHLE) The Agency stated that this listing represented U.S. persons, including some non-U.S. citizens who owed some measure of allegiance to the United States, who had either defected or shown some intention of defecting to the USSR within for the requested time period. (27 January 75 memo E. Hugh Tovar to S.A. KAHLE)

As this list was compiled from a more detailed computer program

18


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

on American defectors, a more detailed description concerning these

individuals was requested and provided in an expanded version of

to Higical dist. This mackice listing included the following infor-

matise when relevant or available for each individual: name, date and place

Kail
of Winth, 201 file number, arrival in Soviet Union, departure.

M. Soviet Union, employment in Soviet Union, most current address,

and other miscellaneous information compiled from the individuals

201 file and for third agency documents, regarding this individual.
("Expandile Compile hat of U.S. Person...")

The Committee compiled a list of persons who appeared from

the information available in the Agency's uspended text, to be U.S.

citizens born in the United States, who defected or attempted to defect

to the Soviet Union between the years of 1958 and 1963 and who re-

In addition,
turned to the United States within the same period of time. Thereon -

the Committee included.
Waded in to that were individuals from an October 1960 State

request for
Department information from the CIA regarding these person whom

they considered to be defectors to the Soviet Union or Soviet bloc countries.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

The HSCA requested files on twenty-nine individuals who fit the above-described criteria and the CIA provided files on twenty-eight individuals in whom they maintained records. These 201 files were reviewed as well as any existing Domestic Contact Division files regarding these persons.

The HSCA file review revealed that, in the case of six of the individuals, there is no indication that they were returned to the United States. In some of these cases, the files contained a report from a source who observed or spoke with the subject and then reported the contact to the CIA, but there is no indica-
of direct contact with any of these persons on the part of the CIA.

In regard to the other twenty-two defectors, the file review shows that there is no record of CIA contact with eighteen of them. Again, four of those files contain a report by a source who advised the agency of their contact.

One file regarding a former military person contains a report of a briefing conducted by military intelligence.

The circumstances of the CIA's contact with the four remaining defectors differed in each case. The file of one individual reflects that he had.

20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

actually been during in the USSR since 1933 and returned to the United States in 1962. He was debriefed in 1964 by a CIA officer using (Department of)

(Defense) Power after applying for employment in response to a newspaper advertisement. (Rev. of Irving). Another returning defector, Harold Coryell, was rewriteingly interviewed by a CIA (in the American embassy) officer.

leges upon his departure from the Soviet Union in route to the United States.

While Coryell's file indicates that the Agency considered it desirable that a full and controlled debriefing by the CIA and FBI be conducted

and Regleton wrote to the FBI suggesting a joint debriefing, there is no evidence in Coryell's 201 file nor in any OCD documents which suggest further contact on the part of the CIA.

More extensive debriefings were conducted of the other two defectors, Robert E.

Webster, a plastics expert with the Reed Development Corporation whose defection to the Soviet Union in 1959 was highly publicized, returned to the United States in June of 1962. Webster had been employed in the Soviet Union at the Leningrad Scientific Institute of Plastic Machines.

21

![image of the number 2 with the letters BR underneath]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

Shortly after his return to the United States, Webster was debriefed in this area territory by representatives from the CIA's office of Operations and in conjunction with representatives
SR/16 applying the air force. It was decided that a more extensive debriefing over in radio and Webster was subsequently brought to the Washington
D.C. area where he was debriefed for a period of two weeks. The debriefing reports include a chronology of Webster's life and the CIA's assessment of
lived as well as a large body of information regarding life in the Soviet
Union, Webster's work, the and biographical information on persons he
had met during his residence there.

Likewise, (Sichius Kucasibelli) who had lived in the Soviet Union for
nearly four years, was contacted for purposes of debriefing shortly after
his return to the United States, after June of 1963. His initial debriefing included such subjects as the motivation to defect to the USSR as well
as well as activities engaged in during his Moscow stay, relocation
from Moscow to Kiev, and general aspects of life such as residence controls
and costs. While the CIA felt it was inferable to debrief Kucasibelli.

22


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

more thoroughly due to this current status of attempting to regain U.S. citizenship, the Agency expressed in interest in eliciting more information on such topics as cost of living, medical care, consumer goods, highways, transportation and restrictions upon travel within Kiev.

It becomes clear from the review of files on those defectors that debriefing by the CIA of defectors was, in fact, somewhat of a random occurrence. However, in the instances in which the Agency did choose to debrief returning American defectors, the Agency appeared to be interested in topics of general interest regarding life in certain areas of the Soviet Union. In this regard, the persons who were debriefed were similar to Oswald in that they defected and returned within the same general time period and also spent his time in the Soviet Union in areas of interest to the CIA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

It appears from an examination of all available materials, that Lee Harvey Oswald was not interviewed by the CIA following his return to the United States from the Soviet Union although persons in a branch of the Soviet Russia Division expressed an interest in interviewing Oswald, they never followed up on this interest. There is also no indication that the Collection Division of the office of Operations interviewed Oswald.

While the CIA did conduct interviews of some tourists who visited the Soviet Union during the period 1959-1963 as well as some American citizens who defected to the Soviet Union and then returned to the United States, there was no standard policy to interview all persons in either category. Thus, the fact that Oswald was not interviewed was more the rule than the exception according to procedures followed by the CIA at that point in time.

HSCA was advised that at the time of Oswald's return, there were many Soviet citizens leaving USSR and the debriefing program probably concentrated on them.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)