# JFK Assassination System Identification Form

## Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10120-10150

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 015081

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 02/24/1978

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: CAISON, LARRY F.

DOD, FILES

USAF

GOBEL, RUDOLPH

STANLEY, WILLIAM C.

FISCHER, CHARLES

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/09/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Box 292.

![Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025]

![v9.1 NW 88326 Docld:32268020 Page 1] ![Date: 10/13/20] ![1]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

KENNEDY 015072

015081

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1. Identifying Information:

Name Sgt. Lewis Wesley LEBER

Address Headquarters TAC

City/State Langley AFB, VA 23665

Date 2/24/78 12:03 P.M.

Place Bldg. #693 HOS TAC
Langley, AFB

Telephone

Date of Birth 38 years

Social Security 226-52-6354

M or S

Spouse

Children

2. Physical Description:

Height

Weight

Ethnic Group

Color Eyes Hair

Special Characteristics

3. Personal History:

a. Present Employment:

Address

Telephone

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

4. Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator

Date

Form #4-B

NW 88326 Docld:32268020 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME Sgt. Lewis Wesley LEBER Date 2/24/78 Time 12:03P.M.

Address Headquarters TAC Place Bldg. #693 Hqs. TAC

Langley AFB, VA

Interview:

Due to the nature of the interview, DOD approval was sought and acquired prior to scheduling contact with Sgt. LEBER. The sensitive nature of the military activities at Langley AFB also required that approval be given to Sgt. Leber to participate in the interview with the undersigned, which in turn resulted in the presence of two military personnel at the outset of the session, namely Colonel Gene D. Hunter and Special Agent David Herb Pelham, both of the USAF Office of Special Investigations. Because of the awkward circumstances, the two civilian-attired military observers were asked to leave the room to help Sgt. Leber relax and to encourage freer recall. Without objection, both observers left soon after the interview began.

During the course of the conversation with Sgt. Leber, the following information was elicited:

1. Subject recalled the full name of the person in question as Captain William C. STANLEY, Special Security Officer for Headquarters TAC-Intelligence. Captain Stanley had been working under a Major Rudolph GOBEL sometime during 1970 and/or 1971.

Interviewer

![signature]

Clifford A. Fenton, Jr.
(Typed)

Date Transcribed 3/20/78 jeg


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# Interview of Sgt. L. W. LEBER
2/24/78
Page Two

2. Since Leber was transferred to Hqs. TAC at Langley AFB in 1970, he only knew STANLEY for approximately 2-3 months (exact time unknown). However, during this period of time, LEBER does not recall any conversation with STANLEY relative to the JFK assassination, Russia, Cuba and/or Mexico.

3. LEBER stated that Capt. STANLEY was an ex-enlisted man who had served 16 years in the Army and was about 38 years of age in 1970. He was possibly "r.i.f.'ed" from the service in 1971 and was said to have had severe financial problems.

4. Further, it is believed that Capt. STANLEY left the service and went to study law at the University of Miami (Florida) in 1971.

5. Two servicemen were identified as having served under Capt. STANLEY, namely Larry F. CAISON and Chief Master Sergeant Charles FISCHER, about whom, it was felt, additional information could be secured.

Following the termination of the interview, assistance was provided in obtaining the addresses of the above-referenced servicemen:

Lt. Col. Rudolph D. GOBEL, Jr., Retired
2671 Merrie Oaks Road
Winter Park, Florida 32789

Larry F. CAISON
1508 Gronin Drive
Hampton, Virginia

At the present time the whereabouts of Sgt. FISCHER and Capt. STANLEY are unknown.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)