2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Classification: ______________

(This form is to be used for material extracted from CIA-controlled documents.)

Box 54

FOLDER 7

ITEMYA

THIS FOLDER CONTAINS NOTES ON CLASSIFIED MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY HOUSE SELECT COMMITEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS AND NOTES GENERATED UPON ACCOUNTABLE PAGES HEREIN

HSCA STAFF MEMBER: ______________

PAGE NUMBERS OF NOTES ON CLASSIFIED MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA: ______________

PAGE NUMBERS OF ACCOUNTABLE NOTE PAPER ISSUED FOR FURTHER NOTES GENERATED AT HSCA ______________

| TE  | FOLDER REQUESTED BY (PRINT NAME) | REQUESTOR'S SIGNATURE |
| --- | -------------------------------- | --------------------- |
|     |                                  |                       |
|     |                                  |                       |
|     |                                  |                       |
|     |                                  |                       |
|     |                                  |                       |
|     |                                  |                       |
|     |                                  |                       |
|     |                                  |                       |

THIS COPY IS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

ALL PAGES HEREIN ARE ACCOUNTABLE
NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FOLDER

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Classification:

10145-10265


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SEGRET

## Contact Report

11110717

Persuant to critic publications and specific allegations by former CIA employee James Willcott that LHO was a CIA agent, Staff Investigator Harold Heap, interviented the following personnel to determine if there existed corroboration for the Wilcott statements had personal knowledge relating to the Oswald agent issue,

1. Robert P. Wheeler, DOB 4Oct15, SSN 258-17-0844. 6600 Milwood Rd, Bethesda, Maryland, telephone no. 229-6368, 13-3 Position, with CIA, was Deputy Chief of Station, Tokyo, Japan, June to Sept 64. Interviewed at CIA Hqrs 4-13-78. Subject is retired

2. Leo Rosenbaum, DOB 2 Dec 23, SSN 122-14-222 1815 Opalocka Dr., McLean, VA, Telephone no 356-5283. Position with CIA for the period June 60 May 64 was chief of Counter Inteligence, SR Branch, [Tokyo Japan]. Interviewed CIA Hqrs. 4-10-78. Subject is retired

3. Hope Jane Mason, DOB 24 May 33, SSN [018-26-3500] Subject presently employed at CIA Hqrs and has cover. [Mason's] position with the CIA in 1963 at [Tokyo Japan] was Inteligence assistant for the SE Section. Interviewed at CIA Hqs on 4-7-78

4. Frederick C. Randall, DOB 28Oct26, SSN 508-20-4068, Presently employed at CIA Hqrs and has cover. Randall position with the CIA in Sept 61 to 13-36 Aug 65 was Chief of Registry at the [Tokyo Station]. Interviewed at CIA Hqs on

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

5. James S. Wood, DOB 20 Feb 28, SSN. Presently employed at CIA Hqrs, Woods 13-3 position from April to at [Tokyo Station] as finance officer. Subject interviewed at CIA Hqrs on 3-31-78.

6. George von Bretzel, DOB 12 Dec 21 SSN 074-18-5912, 14801 Springfield Rd Germantown, MD, telephone 9348-6908. Former CIA case officers, [Tokyo, Japan] to S R B from July 61 to July 67 presently retired, interviewed 4-10-78.

7. Howard M. Orr, DOB 22 Jul 22, SSN 275 12 4377, address 8405 Weller Ave, Mc Lean Va, telephone 893-3325, presently retired. Positions with CIA, HDQS 59-61 (SR Div) [Tokyo] 61-3 (case officer, SB.), Nov 63 HDQS, SR Dir, desk officer for [Japan] interviewed 4-11-78

8. George A. Fiel, DOB 29 May 21 SSN address 27 Bay Tree, North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina 29582 Telephone # 803-249-3193. Presently retired. Fiel was chief of the Soviet Branch at the [Tokyo Station] from June 1960 to June 1965 interviewed 4-29-78


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

9. Robert N. Keil, DOB 11 Aug 27,
   SSN 257-78-6051, address 2011 Glen way dr,
   Sanford, da. 32771, Telephone 13-3305-323-7434
   former case officer at (Tokyo Station), SR Bre
   Jan 59 - Det 63, interviewed 4-30-78

10. Jirome E.fox, DOB 9 Oct 8, SUN 102-22-918
    address 3663 NW 21st, Miami, Fila.
    telephone 305-634-2997. 13-3-former Cin
    intelligence analysis at (Tokyo station) from
    Jul 1959 to 962 woched in program involvin
    military intelligence. e. interviewed 5-1-78

11. William V. Brve, DOB 24 Aug 13, SSN 032 01 816.
    address 111 Indian Trials, Scituate, mass
    telephone27 617-545-6113. former CIA
    [COS Tokyo?, Japan] from 1961 το 1965
    interviewed 5-15-8

12. Willieen Cranford, DOB 19 Sept 24., SSN
    429-26-4454 address. 4944 St, Art 806
    San Diego, Ca. 92109 telephone 714-272-2770
    former cir executios officer at atangi aur base
    in charge of the 4.2 program. (Details of intervien
    Conducted 5-14-78 submitted in separate report).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Clit employees

The above individuals were selected for interview because of the position they held at the time with the CIA at the Tokyo station during the time period from al 1959 to 1964.

James Wilett made gave testimony in a closed hearing before the SCA that a CIA case officer stationed in [Tokyo, Japan] told him that LHO was a CIA agent and also mentioned LHO's crypto 13-3 conversation took place in the Tokyo station shortly after the word of the JFK assassination was received on 25 nov 63. Wilent stated that could not recall the name of the case officer or the cryptonyms. Willott also advised that considerable conversation took place among CIA employees concerning the Oswald-CIA agent issue.

The basic questions asked of the CIA employee selected were as follows:

a) Have you ever seen written documents which would indicate that LHO was a CIA agent or a source of information?

b) Were you ever heard advised orally that LHO was a agent?

c) Have you ever heard conversation or heard speculation that LHO was a CIA agent or intelligence service?

d) Were you in a position to know if LHO was recruited as CIA agent during his tour of duty with the military in Japan.

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

11110710

(2) When was the first time you ever heard the allegation that LNO was possibly a CIA agent?

13-3
(4) Did you know James & Elsie Winikatt in [Japan?]

all individuals
interviewed stated they never saw any documents nor heard any information that LNO was a CIA agent while stationed in Tokyo. Only after the critic's publication and the service investigation in the late 60s were they aware of "the purported allegation".

Subjects 2, 7, & 8 expressed belief that LNO *could* have been recruited by the KGB during his tour of duty in Japan. They based this belief on the fact that during the period 13-3 of time that LNO was in Japan, the CIA [Station] in [Tokyo] had identified a KGB program specifically directed designed to recruit U.S. military personnel in Tokyo. However they had no information that the recruitment of LNO by the KGB did in fact take place.

![page number 3]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Subject Jerome E. Fox was one person who Wileat could remember with who he had conversation with concerning the speculation that LIHO was an agent for the CIA. The conversation supposedly took place in [Japan] after the information that LIHO was the assassin of JFK. Fox. advised investigator Leap that he was in the U.S at the time of assassination on 23 nov 63. Fox's CIA personnel refute of he was transferred from the [Yokyo station] to the U.S in 1962.

Subjects 2, 7, 8, 9 and 11 all thought they would have known if LIHO had been. Been recruited as a CIA agent while he was in Japan. all the subjects worked with 13-3 the S.R Branch of the [Toyko station] and theoretically would have handled or had knowledge of the recruitment. all thought if Oswald have been recruited with out their knowledge it would have been a rare exception 8 the working policy and guidelines of the [station].


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

John Sullivan SECRET

Wilcott, James Bernard, Jr Security file
sealed FBI - 100-452761
May 9 1969 - SDS
Security Matter - Students
for a Demonstrate Society-
Mc Garraghy nothing concerning the issue.

IM WAVE
Memo - Polygraphically interviewed
29 Sept 65 - by James Lyle of ISD
by Results - favorable in the
Daniel area of morals, loyalty,
+ and associates ète, and there
  Cullen were no evidences of deception,
  Subject considered a very
  naive man.

FBI informed that the problem
has been resolved.

SECRET 11110302


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

Dour
Houdeshelff
personnel file

6616 oz 765

Wilcott, James B. JR.
DOB 09-27-31

Personnel file

09-15-63

DDP/FE FOREIGN FIELD, [FE/JKO]
[TOKYO STATION] SUPPORT STAEC
POSITION - FISCAL ACCT ASST

FITNESS REPORT 26 APR 65-15 APR 66
"Subject was barely adequate in
performing his assigned tasks."

11 Oct 64 to 25 Apr 65
Subject considered proficient and
described as cooperative and dependable.

1 Jul 63 to 30 Jun 64
Subject considered proficient - Remarks
"Subject has performed his duties in a
competent manner"

Specific duty no 1 - "as Station cashier
responsible for the daily receipt and
disbursement of cash [Japanese yen]
(U.S. dollars, MPE)"

11110303

SECRET

1 Jul 62 to 30 Jun 63
Subject considered proficient.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

1 Apr 61 to 30 Jun 62

27 May 60 to 31 Mar 61
Competent

1 Apr 59 to 31 Mar 60
Competent

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)