# Russell August fangelle

SECRET

Robert Genzman and Harold Sexp interviewed Russell August Langelle at C/A Readquarters on May 4, 1978. The interview yielded the following information:

Langelle joined the CIA in September 1950, and worked mainly in SR9 of the Soviet Russia Division. In November 1955 he resigned from the Agency on the pretext that he was disgruntled with his assignments. His CIA files would have reflected this termination of employment. The only document to the contrary would have been a memorandum from the Director of Central Intelligence Allan Dulles, stating that Langelle would retain all rights and benefits when he returned to the C/A (at present this document would probably be in his personnel file.

Approximately fifteen people knew that Langelle was still with the era after his resignation in 1955. These included John Mawry (SE), Joe Bulik 03 (SR9), Quentin Johnson (Chief of Operations), George Risevaljer, Frank Levy, Ted Polling

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Genzman
5-4-78

SECRET 03
[Jack Kindschi, (June Sworbuck)
(Ed Galloway), Leonard McCoy
(Reports and Requirements), Pierre
de Silva (COS), and someone at
the State Department's Office of
Security.

At the time of his resignation,
Langelle applied for employment
with the State Department. In
the interim he worked at the
Hecht Company. In March 1956
he started to work at the
State Department as a Security
Officer. In September 1956 he
was sent to Vienna, where he
earned a reputation for being
a strict security officer at the
Embassy. He was deliberately tough
on CIA personnel who breached
security, in order to build his
cover as a non-CIA foreign
service officer. His salary was
paid by the State Department.
The CIA Chief of Station in Vienna
and the Ambassador knew he
was with the CIA.
11112575

Langelle served as the Security
Officer at the Moscow Embassy
from December 1957 to September
1959. In addition, he was the
senior CIA officer there. The
CIA contingent in Moscow
consisted of five or six officers


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Genzman
5-4-78

SECRET

[working inside the Embassy and approximately four outside. Inside, with deep cover, were George P. Winters (Econ Officer), FNU
03 (Mahoney), FNU (Venables) and Steveos Washenko (Econ or Agric Officer).
Outside were Jean Leberman (teacher at the American school) and three or four students, who handled orientation projects rather than operations projects.

[Langelle handled CIA communications in Moscow. The CIA used State Department channels of communication, but could code messages by means of one-pad encrypting so that the message was secret until it was forwarded to CIA headquarters, where it was decoded.

In 1959 the Soviets declared Langelle persona non grata as a result of his involvement with P.S. Popov.

[Langelle was the case officer of Popov, who worked for the GRU soviet military intelligence. [While making a contact with Popov] Langelle was detained by the KGB and was questioned for two and a half hours. The KGB attempted to recruit him, and then released him. The State

SECRET

11112576


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

4

Genzman
5-4-78

Department filed a formal protest, but Langelle was told to leave the Soviet Union within three days. He left the Soviet Union in early October 1959.

Langelle first became aware of Lee Harvey Oswald when he heard in a conversation that a Marine had contacted the American consular office in Moscow to renounce his citizenship. He later heard that this individual had changed his mind and was returning to the United States.

He does not recall the details of these conversations, but he believes they took place in the United States.

Langelle characterized Oswald's defection as a consular case to be handled by consular officers, rather than an intelligence case involving intelligence officers, who were shorthanded in Moscow at that time. He stated that the few intelligence officers in Moscow at that time were involved in specific operations, and did not perform general intelligence functions. He also stated that intelligence officers at the Embassy did not use the consular officers for intelligence purposes, and that there were


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Genzman
5-4-78

SECRET

[no CIA people in the consular section]

Langelle stated that the military intelligence people at the Embassy probably would have been contacted about Oswald's defection. The military intelligence personnel included [Leo Dulacki (Marines), Paul Adams (Nasry), John Munson (Navy), and Ted Hoffman (Army). He did not know whether Alexis Davison (Navy) was an intelligence officer or whether Davison was involved in the Penkovsky case]

Langelle stated that when Oswald left the Soviet Union, he was the responsibility of the State Department, the Immigration and Naturalization service, and the FBI.

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959, Winters was the senior CIA officer there. 03 (Mahoney and Leberman) were still there, and Washenkof may still have been there. Langelle's replacement as Embassy Security Officer was John Abidian [who was not with the CIA. Abidian was later replaced by Hugh Montgomery, who was Winter's successor as senior CIA officer.]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

6

SECRET

Genzman
5-4-78

Montgomery was later replaced by Paul Garfler, who became the first officially designated Chief of station in Moscow. Other CIA officers in Moscow circa 1962 included (Rodney Carlsons, Bill Horfaly, and possibly John D. Hemenway).

At Headquarters the chief of the Soviet Russia Division was John Mawry, followed by Howard Osborne and then David E. Murphy.

With regard to American journalists in Moscow, Langelle had no contacts with R. F. Norengold or Aline Mosby, did not know a. d. Goldberg, and was contacted by Priscilla Johnson for an interview after he was declared persona non grata.

SECRET 11112579

When Langelle returned to the United States, he continued working for the State Department. He resumed [his] CIA duties on a part-time basis in 1961. He dealt with communications between Washington and Moscow.

In September 1961 he resumed [his] CIA duties on a full-time basis at Headquarters. He worked mainly in the Soviet Russia Division, External Operations, Africa and Europe. At present he is still with the CIA and still paid by the State Department but he plans to retire soon.

3/R


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET

Sangelle

Langelle was born on October 7, 1922.

His social security number is [495-18-8800]

He is married, with three children. 30

Sangelle

joined the CIR in September, 1950,

and worked mainly in the Soviet

Russian Division. In November 1955 he

resigned from the Agency on the pretext

that he was disgruntled with his face

assignments. His CIA files would towe

have reflected his termination of employment.

The only document to the contrary would

have been a memorandum from the

Director of Central Intelligence Allan

Dulles, stating that Langelle would

retain all rights and benefits when he

returned to the CIA. (This document at present in his

Approximately fifteen people knew that he was

still with the CIA after his resignation

in 1955. These included John Maury

(CSE), (Joe Bulik) (SR9), Quentin

Johnson (Chief of Operations), George

Risevalper (sp), Frank Levy, Ted

Polling, Jack Windschi, June 03

Sworbuck) (Ed. Galloway), Leonard

McCoy (Reports and Requirements),

Pierre de Silva (COS), and

someone at the State Department's

Office of Security. SECRET 11112500

Lang at the time of his

resignation Langelle applied for

1542x employment with the State Department.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

*SECRET*

[Sangelle handled CIA communications in Moscow. The CIA used State Department channels of communication, but coder could code messages by means of one-pad encrypting so that the message was secret until it was forwarded to CIA Headquarters for decoding.]

11112581

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

deliberately tough on CIA personnel for security breaches in order to build his cover as a non-CIA foreign service officer. His salary was paid by the state Department

In the interim he worked at the Wecht Company. In March 1956 he began started to work at the state Department as a Security Officer. He was sent to Vienna in September 1956, in September 1956 he was sent to Vienna, where he earned developed the reputation for being a strict Security Officer at the Embassy. He was CIA 27

Chief of Station and the (in Vienna) and the ambassador knew he was with the CIA. He served as the Security Officer at the Moscow Embassy from December 1957 to September 1959.

In addition, he was the senior CIA officer there, with five or six CIA officers working inside the Embassy and approximately four outside.

Inside, with deep contact, were George P. Winters (Econ. Officer), 03 (Mahoney) (Venables) and 03.32 (Steve Vashenko (Econ. or Agric. Officer)). Outside were Joan Liberman (teacher at the American school) and three or four students, who handled orientation projects rather than operations projects

[insert]

SECRET

In 1959 the Soviets declared L'Angeli persona non grata as a result of his involvement with P.S. Popov. L'Angeli was the case officer for Popov, who worked for the GRU, Soviet military intelligence. L'Angeli had been contacting while

TIP


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

3

SECRET

[making a contact with Popov
Langelle was detained by the KGB
and was questioned for two and a
half hours. The RGB attempted
to recruit him and then released
Rimgad The State Department
filed a formal protest, but fangelle
was forced to bave the Soviet Union
within three days.

Langalle first became aware
of Lee Harvey Oswald when he heard
in conversation that a former Marine
had contacted the American consular
office in Moscow to renounce his
citizenship. He later heard that
this individual Rad changed his
mind and was returning to the
United States. He does not recall
the details of these conversations,
but he believes they took place
in the United States. 11112583
Langelle characterized Oswald's
defection as a consular case to be
handled by consular officers rather
than an intelligence case which
involving intelligence officers, who
were shorthanded in Moscow at that
time. He stated that the few
intelligence officers in Moscow at that
time were involved in specific
operations, and did not handle perform
general intelligence functions Ne
stated that Oswald, when he returned
He also stated that the intelligence officers at the Embassy did not use the consular officers for intelligence purpose


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

4 and that there were no CIA people in the consular section.

SECRET

left the Soviet Union, was the responsibility of the State Department, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the FBI.

When Langelle left Moscow in 1959, Winters was the senior CIA officer there. (Mahoney) and Leberman were still there, and (Washenko) may still have been there. Langalle's replacement as Embassy Security Officer was John Abidian who was not with the CIA. Abidian was latered replaced by Hugh Montgomery, who replaced Winter's as the successor as senior CIA officer. Montgomery was later replaced by Paul Farther, who became the first officially designated Chief of Station in Moscow. Other CIA officers in Moscow circa 1962 included (Rodney Carlson) Bill Warbley, and possibly John D. Nemingway.

Military intelligence personnel in Moscow included Paul Adams (Army) attache (Navy) and Hoffman.

At Headquarters, the chief of the Soviet Russia Division was John Mawry, followed by Howard Osborne and then David E. Murphy.

SECRET

11112584

4/PJ


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

When Longelle returned to the United States, la continued working for the State Department. He resumed [his] CIA duties on a partetime basis in 1961 [He dealt with communications between Washington and Moscow.] In September 1961 le resumed [his] CIA duties on a full-time basis at Headquarters. He worked mainly in the Soviet Russia Division, External Operations, Africa and Europe. Now present at present he is still with the CIA [and is still 32 paid by the State Department] but he plans to retire soon.

11112585

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# Sangelle"
Russell August Langelis

SECRET

Genzmar
5-4-78

10-7-22

(495-18-8808)

m 3 ch. SR Div (SR9) language, operational, t mil.
experience, reliab., stabil.

CIA Sept 50 - word-disgruntled 24

Nov. 55 resigned from agency - sed. Off- crack building
Vienna [cos window (fishl.

inter in memo from director status + amb. orally)

for at all rights & benefits moscow - Dec. 57
when returns
Hecht Co. (Dulles) sept 59

called 15 knew
State (SR9 - internal op people all buried.

Mar. 1956 gnos. component not a station
& couple of
Vienna officers in [first COS Paul Garbler]
Sept. 56 Drorsion

SE John Maury
SR9 (Joe Bulick) 03
Cl. of Ops Quentin Johnson
orge Resefeller (sp.) Resevalter
Jack Rincly
Frank Levy
Ted Polling
Jack Rindocni
Oune Sworbuck) 03
Ed Galloway 03 11112586

Reporto + Requirements
Leonard Me Loy

COS Pierre de filivre

DOS - Office of security
[stepla not aware]

Moscow [5 to 5 officers inside
4 outside

SECRET

5/al


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

Jangelle

SECRET

Gonzman
5-4-78

George P.

Inside Winters, (Mahoney) (Denats) 03 03

Steve Washenko (Econ. Officer) 03,32

Outside Glan Leberman [teacher] 24

3 or 4 students - orientation

rather than operations

Left in 59 John Abidian (State dc. Officer
took over state

Abidian
replaced
by Hugh
responsibilities) sort of senior

Montgomery
(integrated) 32 CIA George P. Winters32 -Econ Off

senior Washenko (agrid) off.
officer (Mahoney)03 + Leberman
maybe still there
PNG agency operation
penetration on GRtl-mil. intell.
Pyta Popov. agent
1a was case off.

case compromised

got approval from thrush.

to kidnap - as stepped
tried to recruit off a bus

released after 2½ hrs.

said they would get in touch
State protested
PNG 11112587
Back to les worked for state Jan 60
handled state Dept duties

agency functions

Resumed CIA parttime '61, Communications to mos
Dept, '61 Hq at full time basis.

SECRET

8/7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

sangelle
L'Angeli

SECRET

Gonzman
5-4-78

(Penkovsky)
cut-out-Brit. wife
SR9 Sept.61-62
[moved back] to CIA
on full-time basis Sept.61
(Dec. 58 - Sept. 59)
[Mahony GSA officer]
Communicat. - Move to HQ
SR9 Jack Maury

Winters remained

CHO

in conversations a consular officer said Marine
renounced citizenship

walk-ins
consular off. would bring it to your attention

[George Wieswalper Jim Berlin, handled Popow] while
in E. Berlin & Vienna
handled Penkosky
maybe Rosenbo

Used State communications
[one pad encrypting]

SECRET

11112588

VPN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

Sangelle
L'angele

4

SECRET

Genzman
5-4-78

[no CIA people in consular section.

mil. intell. Paul Adams Nav.

Ted Hoffman Arm.
Munson
Munson Nav.

Dulacki Mar.

would have been contacted

Korengold - no contacts

Johnson - asked for interview after his PNG

Mosby - no contacts

Goldberg - didn't know

[Davison - doesn't know if agency
not involved in Penk to his knowledge.]

[dip. personnel could not be used for intel. without prior approval from state.]

Provocations

[Harmstone]

11112589

Naval aviator
Atsugi - 53-55

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

Langelle
Angeli

SECRET

Gonzman
5-4-78

62 Hugh Montgomery (senior)
(John D. Hemingway) (?)
Paul Garbler (cos; replaced Montgomery)
(Rodney Carlson) 03
Bill Stanselly

No common source register with mil. & Moscow

63-SR, Chief of External Ops.
Africa & Cur.

(Still paid by State)
32
FSR 4 in Moscow
G513 - Moscow

David E. Murphy - Chief of SR Dir. @ 64-65
COS in Berlin during
Popov operation while
L'a in Moscow

Then Maury
followed by Howard Osborne
'' Murphy

11112530

SECRET

3/1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

He believed that the military intelligence people at the Embassy would have beer contacted about Cowald's defection. The military intelligence personnel included Paul Hoffman (Navy), Dulachi (Marines), Paul Adams (Navy), Munson (Navy) and Ted Hoffman (Army). Langelle did not know Alexis Davison (Navy) was an intelligence officers whether he was involved in the Penkowsky case whether.

With regard to American journalists in Moscow, Langelle had no contacts with R. G. Korengold or Alene Mosby, did not know A. I. Goldberg, and was contacted by Priscilla Johnson after her expulsion for an interview after he was declared persona non grata.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

res.61 [Eugene 03 (Maroney) - Rt. 1 [Berkeley
30-61 - 11.64 Garbler- Vienna Springs, W.V. 1503 Druid
Hill Ct. 22180

17Feb62 - 20ap.63 Osborne-Mc Lean
356-4650 Montgomery
[First COS]

26 June 62-14 Dec. [Rodney Carlson]

11 Jul 63, 31 Aug 65 [Edward Gotchel] HQ
annual leave til May
22.

11 Jan 63, 18 Jan. 64 [Jerry Prehm] HQ 2 p.m.
May 12

C/SR John Maury
1 Dec 54-29 Jul 62 3704 Farr Ave,
Fairfax

30 Jul 62 - 15 Sept. 63 Howard J. Osborne
Alty John Rebeilus
948-6727

David C. Murphy
1537 Forest

16 Sept 63 - 10 Mar Villa Lane, Mclean
68 356-9523

11112592

SECR 7

KIN


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)