# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10317
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 10
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 5

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

---

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10317

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

---

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 12/29/76

PAGES : 12

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BROWN, CLAIRE, L.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:1.

---

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date:08/20/93
Page:1

NW 88326
DocId:32243283 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# OFFICE OF THE CLERK
## U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
# PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
## 1977
YEAR

BROWN C.L.

Address

Address

Phone Number

Position Title

DATE OF APPOINTMENT
12-29-76

ANNUAL LEAVE
CATEGORY
1.0

1.5

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE

2.  0

Position Number Lavel Step Years Months

| Month |  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |  5  |  6  |  7  |  8  |  9  | 10  | 11  | 12  | 13  | 14  | 15  | 16  | 17  | 18  | 19  | 20  | 21  | 22  | 23  | 24  | 25  | 26  | 27  | 28  | 29  | 30  | 31  | ACCRUED THIS MONTH | AVAILABLE THIS MONTH | USED THIS MONTH | BALANCE AT CLOSE OF MONTH | EMPLOYEE INITIALS |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----- | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :-: | :----------------: | :------------------: | :-------------: | :-----------------------: | ----------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Jan.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         /          |                      |                 |                           |                   | 1   |     |     |     | 1   |
| Feb.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         /          |                      |                 |                           |                   | 2   |     |     |     | 2   |
| Mar.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         /          |                      |                 |                           |                   | 3   |     |     |     | 3   |
| Apr.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         /          |                      |                 |                           |                   | 4   |     |     |     | 4   |
| May   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         /          |                      |                 |                           |                   | 5   |     |     |     | 5   |
| June  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         //         |                      |                 |                           |                   | 6   |     |     |     | 6   |
| July  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         //         |                      |                 |                           |                   | 7   |     |     |     | 7   |
| Aug.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |                      |                 |                           |                   | 8   |     |     |     | 8   |
| Sept. |  A  |     |     |     |  A  |  A  |  A  |  X  |     |     |     |     |  X  |  X  |  X  |  X  |  X  |  X  |     |     |  X  |  X  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |         8          |          8           |                 |             8             |                   | 0   |     |     |     | 8   |
| Oct.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |                      |                 |                           |                   |     |     |     |     |     |
| Nov.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |                      |                 |                           |                   |     |     |     |     |     |
| Dec.  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |                      |                 |                           |                   |     |     |     |     |     |

Terminated 9/20/77

= 0.5 day annual leave

= 1.0 day annual leave

= 0.5 day sick leave

S or S = 1.0 day sick leave

A= 0.5 day administrative leave

A or A = 1.0 day administrative leave

U = 0.5 day unauthorized absence

U or U = 1.0 day unauthorized absence

= 0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employee's Signature Date
(If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)

Chief's Signature Date

Approved:

Clerk of the House Date

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

EXHIBIT I

NW 88326
DocId:32243283 Page 3

BALANCE BROUGHT FORWARD FROM PRECEDING YEAR

Annual Leave

Sick Leave


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# CLAIRE L. BROWN
5021 Seminary Road, #1104
Alexandria, Virginia 22311

(703) 379-1379
Voting Residence: Georgia

## CAREER OBJECTIVE

To develop and improve communication, understanding, programming, and/or policy between the Federal Government and State and local agencies and associations.

## EXPERIENCE SUMMARY

*   Extensive experience evaluating and interpreting Federal education legislation and regulations to determine the impact on State and local educational agencies.
*   Congressional and Executive liaison to Senate, House, and education associations responsible for analyzing and evaluating legislation and Federal regulations.
*   Related experience in curriculum planning and educational research and in library and education programming on the local, State, and Federal level.
*   Reviewed with education association executives, the impact of pending legislation on their interest group.
*   Five years experience as a public school librarian and teacher.

## EDUCATION

Henry Grady High School, Atlanta, Georgia, 1965.
B.S., Ohio State University, 1969. (Education)
M.S., Boston University, 1970. (Library Science) (Audio-Visual Education)

## PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

PROGRAM ASSISTANT, Office of Libraries and Learning Resources, U.S. Office of Ed., Washington, D.C. Researched and analyzed completion reports, compiled statistical information, and wrote a comprehensive national summary of public library construction from Federal funds. (1976)

LIBRARIAN, Office of Career Education, U.S. Office of Education, Wash., D.C. Implemented a resource center of available career education materials from all over the U.S. Wrote annotated bibliographies of specialized materials on women and on the mentally and physically handicapped. (1976)

CONSULTANT, D.A. Lewis Associates, Inc., Clinton, Maryland. Researched, wrote, and developed contract proposals in response to U.S. Gov't. R.F.P.'s, particularly in library and Indian education programs. (1976)

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT, Committee for Full Funding of Education Programs, Washington, D.C. Served as principal personal assistant to the Exec. Dir. and worked with him in all phases of the operation. Worked as liaison with Executive and Legislative branches of government for other groups interested in educational funding (public schools, universities, libraries, handicapped, etc.) to coordinate an effort for full funding of education programs on a Federal level. Initiated legislative communications (phone & letter) to inform members and association executives of pending bills. Attended hearings and meetings, reviewed and analyzed Congressional Records and Federal Registers, and managed the financial records of the Committee. Collected and organized bills, reports, and background materials on pending education appropriations and budget legislation. (1975)

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CLAIRE L. BROWN                                                   PAGE 2

LANDLORD-TENANT INVESTIGATOR, City of Alexandria, Alexandria, Virginia.
Served as liaison between landlords and tenants in disputes, and as an authority
on Virginia housing regulations. Achieved recognition for outstanding negoti-
ations between a tenant and the Virginia Power Co. (VEPCO). Resolved problems
dealing with rent increases, utility bills, and the absence of landlord-tenant
contract-provided services. (1975)

STAFF ASSISTANT, Senator Herman Talmadge (Ga.), Washington, D.C. Helped to edit
the final volume of the Watergate Report, and assisted with bookkeeping concerns
on the Watergate Committee. Drafted legislative correspondence for the Senate
Agriculture Committee in response to constituent requests. (1974)

ASSISTANT LEGISLATIVE AIDE & CASEWORKER, Congressman Gus Yatron (Pa.), Wash., D.C.
Investigated and responded to constituent concerns in legislation, and to their
problems with social security and black lung disability benefits. (1974)

SCHOOL LIBRARIAN, DeKalb County School System, Decatur, Georgia. Achieved
recognition both locally and system-wide for implementing the "open-library"
concept in media centers. Responsible for all reference, acquisitions, cataloging,
and processing of materials. Member of curriculum planning committees for all
subjects, grades 1-7 and planned course curriculum content for library training.
Supervised, managed, and trained a large staff, analyzed school and community
needs, and held budget conferences with administrators. Designed and implemented
all policies within the library, prepared bibliographies, and conducted special
research projects for the principal and led seminars for librarians. (1970-1974)

GRADUATE ASSISTANT, to the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies, School of
Education, Boston University, Boston, Mass. Collected and organized statistical
data used in evaluating various programs at the University, drafted and edited
documents, and served as coordinator for public relations activities in relation
to the University's centennial celebration. (1969-1970)

TEACHER, Columbus Public School System, Columbus, Ohio. Taught all subjects in
the inner-city to low-income 2nd/3rd graders. Worked with different Federal low-
income programs and officials, including ESEA, Title I, and Headstart. (1969)

ASSOCIATIONS AND HONORS

Georgia Association of Educators
American Library Association
Pi Lambda Theta, National Education Honor Society
Dean's List
Alumni Associations of Ohio State and Boston Universities
Member and active participant in the Smithsonian Institute and the Kennedy Center

HOBBIES AND INTERESTS

Travel, Current Events, Photography, Guitar, and Reading

References upon request

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN
RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.
SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
CHARLES THONE, NEOR.
HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

August 23, 1977

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director
House Select Committee on Assassinations
3342 House Office Building, Annex 2
Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Professor Blakey:

Pursuant to our conversation of yesterday, August 22, 1977, and my subsequent conversation with Donovan L. Gay, Chief Researcher, of August 23, 1977, I hereby tender my resignation with the House Select Committee on Assassinations effective September 20, 1977.

I have enjoyed my work at the Committee and I hope that my research as well as that of others will aid in finding the truth and in bringing a satisfying end to these investigations.

Sincerely
![signature of Claire L. Brown]
Claire L. Brown

NW 88326
DocId:32243283 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Claire L. Brown                   | 9/20/77        |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action: |
| ------------------------------- | --------------- |
| 258 72 6151                     |                 |

Employing Office or Committee
Assassinations

Appointment
Salary Adjustment
Termination (At close of business on effective date).

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Researcher     | $15,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date September 15 19 77

Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243283 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Claire L. Brown                   | 5/1/77                                               |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 258 72 6151                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                | $15,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date May 10 1977

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration:

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 8

Fo 5/11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives::

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                         |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| Claire L. Brown                   | 4/1/77                                                 |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                         |
| 258 72 6151                       | ☐ Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee.    | ☑ Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                | $30,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. ☑Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level ________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date April 29 1977

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House, Classification. Act and for Committee em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations; the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees; must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________

Monthly Annuity $________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Claire L. Brown                   | 1/3/77         |

| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action                                         |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| 258 72 6151                        | ☐ Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee      | ☐ Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Select Committee on Assassinations | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
|                | $10,000.            |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff - ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 11 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number ________ If applicable, Level ________ Step ________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date ________ 19 77

Henry B. Gonzalez
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code ________
Monthly Annuity $________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# DISTRICT UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION BOARD

MAIL CLAIM

PART ONE

1. I claim unemployment insurance benefits for the calendar week which began Sunday, Dec. 26, 1976 and ended Saturday, Jan-1, 1977

For the calendar week shown above:

a. I was available for and actively seeking work (✓) Yes ( ) No
b. I was physically able to work (✓) Yes ( ) No
c. I claimed or was receiving education, training or subsistence allowance from the Veterans Administration ( ) Yes (✓) No
d. I claimed or was receiving unemployment insurance benefits under another Federal or State Law ( ) Yes (✓) No
e. I claimed or was receiving a retirement pension or annuity ( ) Yes (✓) No
f. I was totally unemployed ( ) Yes (✓) No

(If your answer to item (f) is "Yes," do not complete item (g) below.)
g. I worked (✓) full time ( ) part time and earned, before deductions, $83.33

2. This claim is filed by mail because:

a. I became employed. Date of employment Dec. 29, 1976

Employer's Name U.S. House of Representatives, House Select Committee on Assassinations

Employer's Address 3342 H.O.B.#2, Washington, D.C. 20515

b. Other than employment. Reason

IMPORTANT: If you started to work during the calendar week claimed in item 1, you must have your employer complete Part Two below.

I certify the above statements are true. I am aware that the law imposes penalties for false statements made in connection with this claim.

Claire L. Brown 5021 Seminary Rd.#1104, Alexandria, Va 1/27/77

Claimant's Signature Address Date

PART TWO

LOW EARNINGS REPORT-To be completed by the employer and delivered to the claimant at his request.

1. During the CALENDAR WEEK beginning SUNDAY Dec. 26, 1976 and ending SATURDAY Jan. 1, 1977
   this employee worked ☑ FULL TIME ☐ PART TIME (NOT your payroll week, if different),

2. His gross earnings payable before deductions, which include tips, cash value of meals, lodgings, and all other remuneration for that week were $83.33

3. If separated, enter date Explain reason for separation

4. Employer's Name U.S. House of Representatives, Select Committee on Assassinations
   Address Washington, D.C. 20515

Rebecca W. Martin 225-2980

Jan. 27, 1977

(Signature of authorized official) (Date) (Person who may be contacted) (Phone No.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)  | Effective Date                                       |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Claire A. Brown                    | December 29, 1976                                    |
| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action                                       |
|                                    | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee      | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Select Committee on Assassinations | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Researcher     | $15,350.30          |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. of Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_______ If applicable, Level _______ Step_______

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date December 29, 1976

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Thomas M. O'Neill, Chairman

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Select Committee on Assassinations
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code______

Monthly Annuity $ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees

FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law

mother niece sister-in-law

son husband stepfather

daughter wife stepmother

brother father-in-law stepbrother

sister mother-in-law stepsister

uncle son-in-law half-brother

aunt daughter-in-law half-sister

first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not related

I am related by the following relationship

![Signature of Employee] Claire L. Brown
Signature of Employee

![Date] Jan. 10, 1977
Date

NW 88326
Docld:32243283 Page 13


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)