# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
6/27/78
D. HARDWAY

1 Summary of Review of
[02]BADGER files.

1.  Vol. I, Production, 10/23/58-3/4/64.
2.  Vol. II, Developmental PlaANS, 1/16/63-2/11/2/67.
3.  Vol III, Support, 1/25/62-11/13/64
4.  Vol. IV, OPERATIONS, 1/3/62-12/19/63

Note that the above volumes are numbered 1, 2, 3, and 4. I have asked Barbara if there is a volume 4 and 5. She said that Project Files are maintained in 4 parts: Production, Developmental Plans, Support and Operations. She said she thought I haal the whole file bout would check with the Mexican desk to make sure. Barbara returned call and said that the person on the Mexico desk was on 2 weeks vacation so she could not find an answer for my question.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

092

2

Volume I / Production

¶ See summary of Dispatch traffic for HMMA-2245-2.
In addition to paragraph about Archart it says; under heading "exploitation of LIENVOY information": "MEXI 645-3 reported a contact by an English-speaking man with the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City. This was forwarded to Headquarters for further dissemination."

¶ See Dispatch Traffic Summary for details on HMMA-2245-3.
The file # on most documents in this volume is 50-6-75/4.
The file number on this Dispatch is 50-8-10. I have asked Barbara what this file is.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

093

3

Π ΗΜΜΑ 22452 also cites other
cables that reported Americans in contact with
the Cuban embassy.
Mexi6591 reported w bill
from Herb Provost Boron
has Vegas claiming to be
a student working with
the Cubemb. The dispatch
says: "Further dissemi-
nation was left to Head-
quarters." Mexi 6615 reported
contact between NYT writer
Herbert Matthews and
the Cubemb. The dispatch
says: "No investigative action
was taken by the Mexico
Station."

π HMMA-22678, 1/2/64 is
the first monthly opera-
tional report for LIENVOY
after the assassination.
Under "exploitation..." the
dispatch says: "The most
significant information
provided by LIENVOY was
record of contact by Lee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

4

Oswald with the Cuban
and soviet Embassies
in Mexico prior to the
assassination of President
Kennedy. Oswald's contact
had been cabled to Head-
quarters on 8 October 1963
for investigation by
ODENVY (MEXI-645-3).
Under the "liaison" heading
the dispatch says:

"[illegible] of the LIENVOY operation.
Since it was necessary for Curtis to request his assistance in investiga-ting a highly sensitive lead in connection with the assassination of President Kennedy; This has been reported in detail to Headquarters via other channels."

9T HMMA 22788-1/24/64 says:
93 "There is attached one copy of the Cuban Embassy traffic


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

095

covering the period from 16 January through 23 January 1964. HMMA-22959 2/24/
2/11 to 2/21. HMMA 23019,
3/4/64 transmits the take for 2/22 to 3/2. My examination of the dispatch traffic between 10/16 and 11/26 shows that the Cubemb take was transmitted to HQ routinely on a weekly or bi-weekly basis also during that period. There are some "transcripts" in this file. They are yellow carbons in Spanish. They cover the period 1/16/64 to 1/23/64. These are the only ones in the file.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

096

Volume II, Development
AND PLANS.

TT Memorandum for DD Pre:
"Request for Renewal of
the LIENVOY Project," from
J.C. King, C/WHD (signed by
R.W. Herbert, 1/21/64. This
memo states the objectives
of the operation as being A.) the provision of
telephone tap unit and
B) provision for
Under "Effectiveness" the
memo says: "This center
records an average of 525
reels per month, from
which

TT HMMA-22679, 12/31/63
transmitting Mexi copy
of Project Renewal request.

TT HMMW 12220, 12/30/63 trans-
95 mitting paper on LIENVOY/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

7

LIFEAT by Paul V.
Levister,

P. 11 reference to Scott's notation on
resume.

P. 5. reason for cutting
out and Tapping DFS

P. 12 liaison procedure
re Soviet tapes.

P. 10 MEXI [UNILATERA] TAP
CAPAbility

P. 16 quality of monitor
work /RESUME /RETENTION
of tapes

P. 17 Monitor who speaks English

P. 18-19 Procedure RE Notice to
station

P. 20 LP Files

P. 22. Arehart + scope

22+ 23 equipment

25. MEXI[UNILATERALS]

32+33 deliver

34+35 reporting + reports officers

37 Cuban coverage

40 Transcription V. SUMMAY.

42 STATION REVIEW.

44 SPECIAL Situ. + ODENVY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

* HMMA24229, 9/3/64
  the reporting american contact
2. couriers in operation.

Proyect Renewal request
1/11/65. 14mm25-141 1/15/-65 (?)

1. relationship and roles.

3. HMMS + HMMT - NON-RECORD.

3. copy of Archant's monthly load log and list of targets

4. general nature of contests on phone lines. Can we get a 1963 phone book.

5. Chart of operation.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

9

Volume 3 / Support

9T HMMA-19804, 9/12/62 has a floor plan of LP

9T MEXI 5412, IN81732, 7/17/63 re HORSFALL'S transfer to Mexico.

9T DIR 56443, 7/24/63 Transcripts V SUMMARIES.

9T MEXI 55-70, 7/31/60 Tarasoff's Abilities.

Vol. VI / OPERATIONS.

T HMMA 19153, 6/5/62 photo of LP attatched

9T. HMMA-19729, 8/30/62 1. timing of transcription/inside proceedure.

GIT HMMA - 22540 6/13/63 resumen attached

aT Mexi 5498 IN877822, 7/26/43 SAME subject As DIR56443


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

гO

0100

ат HMMA-21845, 7/1/63
June monthly report.

1.  Tarasoff / Horsfall + Backlog.
2.  U.S. Citizens IN Contact.
3.  Tarasoff CONTACT
4.  Arehart + Leads of interest
5.  RETENtion of SUMMARIES.

ат HMMWV-11831; 8/6/63
Station follow-ups on am. contact

ат HMMA-22005 8/23/63
1. forwarding of Cub. take
2. HORSFALL & FIENGLASS
3. Arehart + Am. Contacts

ат letters to Scott +
written from LEVISTER
RE: his TDY in Mexi

ат HMMA-22135, 9/13/63
1. Horsfall

ат Memo to Ch/FI, 10/2/63
"TDY to Mexico City."

29


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

11

0101

AT HMMA-22135 9/13/63

1. [target lines] for sept.
2. delivery
3. [Levister] visit.

100


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

50-8-10
Soviet Official Representation
in Mexico.

100-5-1
Soviet Intelligencia Services
in the USA.

101-102

000102


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)