# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10068-10305
RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 6
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

NW 88326
DocId:32243271 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 88326 Date: 2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10305

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE: 08/08/77
PAGES: 6

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
BEESON, PETER G.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box #:1.



[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32243271 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date   |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| Peter C. Beeson                   | December 1, 1978 |

| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                              |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 046-36-4592                                | Appointment                                                                                 |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | Salary Adjustment                                                                           |
| Assassinations                             | Title Change                                                                                |
|                                            | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                      |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business _ _ _ |
| Specify Date                               |                                                                                             |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title             | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------------------- | -------------------- |
| Ass't Deputy Chief Counsel | $36,400.00           |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.
2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.
3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date December 11, 1978

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title- If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code _______

Monthly Annuity $______.00 as of _______

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

ID _______

Benefits _______

Payroll _______

(Revised: August 1977)

NW 88326
DocId:32243271 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                       |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Peter C. Beeson                            | March 1, 1978                                                                        |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                       |
| 046 36 4592                                | Appointment                                                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | *Salary Adjustment                                                                   |
| Assassinations                             | Title Change                                                                         |
|                                            | Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                 |
|                                            | Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business) |
|                                            | Specify Date                                                                         |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
| Staff Counsel  | $30,000              |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. *Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level__________ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date March 14, 1978

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title If Member, District and State)

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________

ID__________

Benefits__________

Monthly Annuity $___________.00 as of __________

Payroll__________ (Revised: August 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243271 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Peter G. Beeson                   | / /77                                                |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 046-36 4592                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Staff Counsel  | $26,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level __________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 15, 19 77

Louis Stokes

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32243271 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

[X] I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

[] I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress. (Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

![Date]

NW 88326
Docld:32243271 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

MEMORANDUM

TO:
Robert Blakey

FROM:
Robert Lehner

DATE:
July 19, 1977

RE:
Applicant Peter G. Beeson

Mr. Beeson is an intelligent, articulate young man who evinced great interest in working with us. He has some knowledge of the King case and possesses an open mind as to its resolution. He has tried some Narcotic Conspiracy cases for the Justice Department and has filed appellate briefs. He would be a welcomed addition to our team.

His present salary is $20,00. He states as of March 15, 1978 he would expect to make $25,000 under a GS-13 rating and therefore requests $25,000 with us. He will be available to start with us in the next two weeks.

I recommend we take him.

![signature]

![handwritten note: $28,000 Aug. 8th]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

July 12, 1977

Professor G. Robert Blakey
House Select Committee on Assassinations
House of Representatives
Washington, D.C.
20515

Dear Professor Blakey:

I am sending the resume which you requested, along with a suggested salary of $25,000, (in line with the level which I would automatically reach with the Justice Department in the relatively near future).

The litigation experience reflected on the resume is almost complete; it omits only a second casel in Puerto Rico (conspiracy) currently in pre-trial stages, an Atlanta conspiracy case I am preparing to indict, and a brief just completed for an appeal to the Ninth Circuit. The job has provided me with a varied and respectable amount of litigation and appeal experience, in addition to the more routine matters (immunities, witness protections, indictment dismissals, Title III wiretap authorizations, solicitor general memos etc.) handled on a daily basis by the various sections within the Criminal Division.

The job which you have described obviously presents an exciting and unique opportunity. Further, I would consider it an honor to work with you on the investigation. I expect I would be able to start work with you within a month, or sooner, should an offer be extended. I look forward to hearing from you in the near future.

Sincerely,

![signature]

![Peter Beeson name and address]

NW 88326
Docld:32243271 Page 8


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)