JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10078-10492
RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 009441

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: CALL, RICHARD DENNIS
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 06/06/1978
PAGES: 6
SUBJECTS: CALL; RICHARD, DENNIS
OSWALD, LEE HARVEY; PRE-RUSSIAN PERIOD
MILITARY SERVICE
DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/20/1997
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: 173-6. Box 173.


Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88326 Date: 2025

Date: 10/14/20

v9.1
NW 88326 Docld:32248434 Page 1
1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# KENNEDY

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE. 009441

1. Identifying Information:

Name Ron Richard DENNIS Call Date 6-6-78

Address Box 623A- Route#5 Place FLEMINGTON, N. JERSEY

City/State FLEMINGTON, N. JERSEY 088251 Telephone 201-782-7832

Date of Birth 1-6-38 M or S Married

Social Security 162-32-1053 Spouse

Children 1 daughter

2. Physical Description:

Height Color Eyes Hair

Weight Special Characteristics

Ethnic Group White male

3. Personal History:

a. Present Employment: College Professor

Address Flemington, N. Jersey

Telephone

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

4. Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator Clarence Ray

NW 88326 DocId:32248434 Page 2 Date 6-6-78 Form #4-B


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# KENNEDY

# SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name Richard Dennis Call Date June 6, 1978 Time4:00 p.m.

Address Box #623-A, Route 5, Fleming-Place Residence
ton, New Jersey 08822

Interview: Mr. Call stated that in 1959 he was in the United States Marine Corps and stationed at El Toro Bay Marine Air Station in Santa Anita, California. He stated that at the time he was a Sergeant in the Marine Corps and that his Marine military speciality was aeronautical electronics operator. He stated that Lee Harvey Oswald was under his immediate supervision.

Call stated that his duties and that of his unit was to track aircraft on a radar scope. He further advised that his unit at that time only worked two or three days out of a week. He stated further that Lee Harvey Oswald's specific duties involved sitting in front of a large radar screen that constantly scanned certain areas for aircraft. Once the aircraft was spotted, it was his duty to track the aircraft until it had cleared the area. Call further continued and stated that his unit had security clearance and he described this level of clearance as being "confidential." He indicated that the security clearance was necessary due to the nature of the work that his unit was doing and also because of the type of radar equip-

Interviewer Signature

![signature]

Typed Signature Clarence Day

Date transcribed 6-23-78

NW 88326 Docld:32248434 Page 3 By: br Form #4-A


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Richard Dennis Call
Page 2.

ment the unit used. Mr. Call stated that he was Oswald's
immediate supervisor. He was not a close friend of Lee Harvey
Oswald but the interest they shared was mainly the game of
chess. Oswald would play chess with him quite often. He
described Oswald as being quiet. He didn't talk very much.
During any conversation that went on, the other person had to
solicit it from him. He described him as being a loner, stay-
ing off to himself, not having very many friends or having
very much contact with other people in the unit. In his
words, Mr. Call described Oswald as being "an oddball." Call
stated that he had never gone off the base or socialized off
the base with Lee Harvey Oswald. He knew of no civilian or
military personnel who he was particularly friendly with.

In regards to whether or not Mr. Call knew that LHO
was studying a foreign language, Mr. Call stated that LHO was
studying the Russian language. He had many books and he pur-
chased Russian records, that is, records of music. Mr. Call
could not recall the title of the books but he did state that
LHO subscribed to two Russian periodicals, or newspapers. He
stated that the two newspapers were the two most popular Russian
newspapers in circulation in the United States today. Mr. Call
recalled a particular record that he owned that was in Russian.
The name of the record he said was "Russian Fireworks." He said
that LHO enjoyed listening to the Russian music that he owned,
that is, Mr. Calls. Mr. Call recalled to memory that on occasions

NW 88326 Docld:32248434 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# Richard Dennis Call Interview
Page 3.

he would be playing Russian music in his quarters and if LHO heard the music he would respond to where he was and reply "Did you call?" Mr. Call stated that it was common knowledge in his unit that LHO was studying the Russian language and that he was very interested in the Russian way of life. Mr. Call knew of no persons that Oswald was studying Russian with. He stated that LHO also had a security clearance, the same security clearance as everyone else in the unit. Call was not sure of what particular training LHO had had; however, he did indicate that LHO had had training in the use of radar tracking equipment. He stated that LHO was a very tight person with money. He never knew him to have an over-abundance of money. Call stated that he had no knowledge of any military personnel who LHO had close contact with, with the exception of a lieutenant by the name of Donavan who he used to play chess with. He also played chess with a Marine by the name not of Botello. Call stated that he did/know Botello's full name, but he believed he was a major in the Marine Corps, that at the present time Botello is a judge in the state of California. although he isn't certain of which state. As far as LHO's interests--personal or professional--were concerned, Call stated that he had no knowledge except that LHO was very interested in the Russian way of life. He was extremely interested in trying to learn to speak the Russian language, so much so that it became a joke in the unit. Instead of calling LHO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# Richard Dennis Call Interview
Page 4.

"Lee" tha menin the unit would call him either "Comrade" or "Oswaldovitch." Lee would show his interest in the Russian way of life by, on occasion, when he was playing chess, if he was asked which men he wanted out of the set of red and black men, LHO would say "the Reds always." Mr. Call knew of no particular military program that LHO was interested in. However, he did state that in 1959 he, LHO, and another Marine named Delgado, all qualified on the rifle range. He considered LHO a very good shot with a rifle: LHO qualified with a score of 212. He stated that he shot right alongside LHO during their qualification. This witness knew of no organizations or informal groups that LHO belonged to. Mr. Call stated that LHO had never spoken to him about the U-2 program. Call further continued and stated that at that time he didn't know what the U-2 program was, that is, Mr. Call didn't know what the U-2 program was. Mr. Call stated that he knew that LHO had shot himself in the arm, or that he had been shot in the arm, that he heard from other men in the unit that Oswald had shot himself in the arm. Call did not know the particulars of the incident. Call stated that he did not know that LHO had a family until 1959 when he was about to be discharged from the service. LHO came to him and told him that his mother was ill and that he was getting a hardship discharge from the service. Call stated that before this time, LHO during the entire


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Richard Dennis Call Interview
Page 5.

time he knew him, had never spoken of any member of his family. Call indicated that he was quite shocked to learn that LHO was getting out on a hardship discharge. Call further stated that prior to his discharge from the Marine Corps, LHO told him that he had been accepted to study at a university in Switzerland. Mr. Call knew of no long extensive periods of time that LHO was separated from the unit while he was under his command. When asked if he, Mr. Call, had been questioned by any federal agency after the assassination, Mr. Call responded that about a week after the assassination of President Kennedy, he was interviewed by agents of the FBI. He does not recall the agents' names. Mr. Call further stated that about a year ago, he was contacted and interviewed by Edward Jay Epstein, the author of the book entitled, "The Legend of Lee Harvey Oswald." Mr. Call described LHO as being a person who was very discontent with the conditions in the United States at that time. Mr. Call stated that he had never heard LHO make a threat against the President or any other official of the United States.

NW 88326 Docld:32248434 Page 7


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)