# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 10/14/20

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10096-10401

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 009534

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: FLYNN, DENNIS A.

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 06/16/1978

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: CIA.

FLYNN, DENNIS A; INTERVIEWS.

DOS.

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/21/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Box 175.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

KENNEDY

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1. Identifying Information:

Name Dennis A. Flynn
Address 11749 Stuart Mill Rd.
City/State Oakton, Virginia
Date June 16, 1978
Place His home
Telephone 620-3239
Date of Birth
M or S Married
Social Security
Spouse
Children

2. Physical Description:

Height
Color Eyes Hair
Weight
Special Characteristics
Ethnic Group

3. Personal History:

a. Present Employment:
Address
Telephone

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

4. Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name
Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator Robert W. Genzman
Date June 27, 1978
Form #4-B


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name Dennis Flynn

Address 1749 Stuart Mill Rd.

Oakton, Virginia

Date June 16, 1978 Time 11:30 am

Place at his home

Interview: Robert Genzman and Harold Leap interviewed Dennis Flynn at his home on June 16, 1978. The interview yielded the following information.

Flynn worked for the FBI from 1934 to 1946, and for the Department of State from 1947 to 1967. From 1953 to 1956 he was Director of Security at the State Department.

Flynn recalls the following procedures for State Department cover for CIA employees. The State Department's Personnel Office would request clearances from the Security Office. The Security Office would contact the CIA liaison officer, who would certify clearance. The Security Office would then grant clearance. A record of CIA certification of clearance would probably be placed in the individual's State Department security file.

Flynn believed that the State Department at no time kept a listing of CIA employees under State Department cover. He said that the Security Officer and the head of the Bureau of Intelligence Research generally knew about these cover arrangements.

Flynn stated that at no time from 1959 to 1963 did the

Interviewer Signature

Robert Genzman

Typed Signature Robert Genzman Harold Leap

Date transcribed June 26, 78

NW 50955 DocId:32256843 Page 3 By: ROSS Form #4-A


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Dennis Flynn Interview
Page two

CIA use consular cover. Flynn said that he remembers the CIA officers who had State Department cover in Moscow during this period. He is sure that Richard E. Snyder and Jack F. Matlock were not CIA employees, and he is fairly certain that John A. McVickar, Joseph Norbury, and Alexis Davison were not CIA employees.

NW 50955 DocId:32256843 Page 4


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)