2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Victor Paneque.

1 pkg. loose documents.

1 pkg. DCD documents.

1 Volume CI/0A documents

1 Volume DDO documents.

DDO Volume

24 October 1960.

Personality File Request

Victor Paneque - 201-286 382

Reportedly an agent of DIER

Undated document giving Paneque's background political activity... all 1960 information.

1.  On arrival in U.S., stayed with Orlando Bosch, suspected Castro agent.

2.  Associated with leader of MRR "Camilo Cienfuegos Carlos Rodriguez Castro, suspected Castro plant in U.S.

3.  Reportedly spent 2 hrs. with Raul Castro before defecting.

4.  Major Sonjenis, former Chief G-2, says Paneque of GOC agent.

5.  Organization Autentica reporting to State Dept that Paneque is a Castro plant

6.  00-A 3168667 reports Paneque one of two DIER plants at Uni of Havana + students planning to assassinate him.

7.  Cuban businessman says Paneque is G-2 plant.

8.  CIA reported to FBI that Subject has been reported...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Palmer
8/2/28
SECRET Janeque

April 29, 1959 Classified message to Director from Havana says Raul Castro has began a major purge of Cuban Armed Forces. Among those to be eliminated are Vietor Paneque, aka "Diego"

18 Oct. 1960 11111.457
Conversation with Major Vector M. Paneque (Commandante Diego, 6 October at 900).

When Paneque arrived in Miami, he got together with Alianza de Liberacion through Dr. Luis Conte Aguero. He could not get immediate help from this group, so resigned. Celso said he had tried to get help from U.S. govt but unsuccessful.

Paneque is convinced that the only thing needed to overthrow Castro is arms & supplies. Has a plane which he intends to fly into Cuba with cargo of arms.

Author of memo recommends that CIA offer assistance to Paneque independent of all other organizations as he seems to be capable of becoming an important factor in the future.

Nov. 2, 1960 Cable to Director from Mase 6003443
SECRE
Paneque & 8 men leaving for Cuba night of 1 Nov. on 40-foot yacht, Trudy Lou. Craft purchased by Orlando Bosch.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

DIER - Departamento Investigativo
Del Ejercito Revolucionario

SECRET

Palmer
8/2/78

Paneque

6 14 Dec. 1960

Cable to Dereitor from Havana. IN 16758

Paneque reportedly under arrest at Cabana Prison & his wife at Women'sprison, on charger of aiding Escambray fighters.

11111.458

Jan 13, 1961

Cable to Bell from Guatemala City . IN 1688.

Alexander Rourke gives information that Frank Fiorini & Orlando Bosch, represent Paneque in Cuba. Fiorini & Bosh recruiting & equipping force for assault on Cuba 18 Jan. Receiving financial aid from Anti Communist International Association of nyc.

8 14 March 1962

Dispatch. D. Chief, Task Force w from COS/MWAVE

Paneque organized a Hunger Strike by Cuban Exiles & held a rally 13 March 1962. Purpose was to show JFK that Cubans are willing to die in exile if their right to defend Cuba from Communism is negated. Motto of strike is "Hunger or War"!

5003444

7 PRQ part 1 - July 4, 1964

Aliases: Diego Rene Ricardo (Clandestine Activity)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

Palmer 8/2/78

Paneque

Request for Information & Review - 5 Nov. 1964
POA granted 13 Nov 1964

8 Oct 1964

11111459

Report of Covert Assessment
from Assessment & Evaluation Staff, Medical Staff.
Paneque one of 6 members of the "radop trainer (radio operators :), given psychological Assessments in Aug-1964. Paneque is oldest, (DOB 18 Sept 1920) and least intelligent, most experienced of the group. Likely he would try to dominate the group because of his past experience. His shortcomings seem to outweigh his assets.

17 Nov 1964 Classified Message 1622582
Paneque assigned AMRUG-5

19 Dec. 1964

Memorandum of Oral Commitment
Paneque engaged under oral contract on 1 Dec 1964. To receive $275.28 per month following completion of satisfactory service. Will receive raise of $50 per month on completion of training & $50 raise upon infiltration (Possibly an infiltration of Oriente Province) see item 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Palmer
8/2/78

SECRET

12 1 Oct 1965

Dispatch from COS/JMWAVE

Paneque terminated as of 31 Oct 1965. Agent service record. recommends him for re-use, on basis of his knowledge of internal contacts in Northern Oriente.

13 15 Sept 1977. To [Managua] # 095686

11111460

Paneque participated in Cuban exile activities in New York area in 1962 and later registered in ISR & Dept of Army in August 1962 (Dropped without prejudice 18 Nov 1963.) In 1964 Paneque was member of MDC infiltration team. Recruited by Miami station as radio operator/infiltree and favorably viewed on 5 August 1964. POA granted 13 Nov 1964. Paid $275 monthly beginning 1 Sep 1964. Trained by Cuban agents in Miami but never used operationally. Amicably terminated 1 Oct 1965 & recommended for re-use. Reported in 1969 as conducting clandestine trips inside Cuba on behalf of Junta militar de Cuba.

Third agency deletions nine sealed envelopes.
8-FBI 1 Dept of Army.
0003446


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Palmer 8/2/78

SECRET

Volume CI/OA - no notes necessary.

Victor Manuel Paneque Batista - C-286382

Deletions - 1 sealed envelope.

FBI report 3 Nov 1960 and Office of Security polygraph Interview

Victor Paneque

DCD Documents - no notes

Loose Documents - Victor Paneque

17. Feb. 1972.

Subject: Identification of PCC, DSE, USC Members, etc.
page 3 - Item 9: Information acquired through interrogation of CC-4993, Jacinto BAEZ, Jaliano, a Cuban refugee & former resident Regla, Havana Province, who left Cuba 22 Nov 1971. Subsource Worked for Superphochates Enterprise from 1950-1968.

Victor Manuel Paneque employed until 1968 as laboratory Chief of Superphosphates, is a member of the PCC, militia, & Defence Committee (CDR) He is an agronomist & former director of School of Agronomy, Havana University: He is described as Caucasion, 5'2" tall, weight about 165 lbs, born 1927-32, black hair, dark - Colored eyes.

(note) Victor Paneque Batista is 5'6" brown hair, blue eyes, born 1920.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)