# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10477
RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 11
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 5

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

> Released under the John F.
> Kennedy Assassination
> Records Collection Act of
> 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
> Case#:NW 88326 Date:
> 2025

NW 88326
Docld:32239485 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10477

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE : 08/03/77
PAGES : 10

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
MATHEWS, I. CHARLES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 88326
DocId:32239485 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# Previous Editions Obsolete
FHA FORM NO. 2004-G Rev: 5/75
VA FORM NO. 26-8497 Rev. 5/75
VETERANS ADMINISTRATION
and
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION

# REQUEST FOR VERIFICATION OF EMPLOYMENT
FORM APPROVED
OMB NO. 63-R1288

INSTRUCTIONS: Lender - Complete Items I through 6. Have applicant complete Items 7 and 8. Forward the completed
form directly to the employer named in Item 1.
Employer - Complete Items 9A through 15 and return form directly to lender named in Item 2.

## PART I REQUEST

1. TO: (Name and Address of Employer):
   Select Committee on Assassinations
   U. S. House of Representatives
   Washington, D. C. 20515

2. FROM: (Name and Address of Lender):
   Society for Savings
   31 Pratt St.
   Hartford, Connecticut 06101

3. Signature of Lender:

I certify that this verification has been sent
directly to the employer and has not passed
through the hands of the applicant or any
other interested party.

4. Title of Lender:

I have applied for a mortgage loan and stated that I am employed by you. My
signature below authorizes verification of this information.

5. Date:

6. HUD-FHA or VA Numbers

7. Name and Address of Applicant:
   Isiah C. Mathews

8. Employee's Identification Number:

Signature of applicant

## PART II VERIFICATION

9A. Is applicant now employed by you?

☐Yes ☑ No Term.12/31/78

10A. Position or Job Title:
Special Counsel

11. TO BE COMPLETED BY MILITARY
    PERSONNEL ONLY.
    Pay Grade:

9B. Present Base Pay is $ 30,000.00

This amount is paid:

☐ Annually ☐ Hourly

☑ Monthly ☐ Other (Specify)

☐ Weekly

10B. Length of Applicant's employment:
8/3/77 to 12/31/78

Base Pay $

Rations $

10C. Probability of continued employment:
Committee terminated

Flight or Hazard $

Clothing $

10D. Date Applicant left:
12/31/78

Quarters $

10E. Reason for leaving:
Committee terminated

Pro-Pay $

Overseas or Combat $

9C. EARNINGS LAST 12 MONTHS
Amount $ 29,333.33
Basic Earnings $

Normal Hours worked per Week:
40

Overtime Earnings $

☐ Regular

☐ Temporary

Other Income $

☐ Regular

☐ Temporary

12. REMARKS:

13. Signature of Employer:

![signature]

14. Title of Employer:
    Deputy Staff Director
    and Budget Officer

15. Date:
    1/17/79

749-159-000
RETURN DIRECTLY TO LENDER
NW 88326
Docld:32239485 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# Select Committee on Assassinations
U.S. House of Representatives
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

Isiah Charles Mathews
013-34-3361

NW 88326
DocId:32239485 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------- |
| I. Charles Mathews                         | 12/31/78       |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action |
| 013-34-3361                                |                |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |                |
| Assassinations                             |                |

*   Appointment
*   Salary Adjustment
*   Title Change
*   Termination (At close of business on effective date)
*   Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business__________ Specify Date)

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level__________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date January 2, 1979

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Type or print name and title of above official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________

ID__________

Monthly Annuity $__________.00 as of__________

Benefits__________

Payroll__________

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32239485 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                                               |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| I. Charles Mathews                         | March 1, 1978                                                                                                |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                                               |
| 013-34-3361                                | ☐ Appointment                                                                                                |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ☑Salary Adjustment                                                                                           |
| Assassinations                             | ☐ Title Change                                                                                               |
|                                            | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                                       |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business__________Specify Date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title  | Gross Annual Salary* |
| --------------- | -------------------- |
| Special Counsel | $30,000              |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff - ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H: Res. 956 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________If applicable, Level__________Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date March 14, 1978

LOUIS STOKES

Chairman

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________ ID __________

Monthly Annuity $__________.00 as of __________ Benefits __________

Payroll __________

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239485 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| I. Charles Mathews                | 10/1/77                                              |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 013-34-3361                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title  | Gross Annual Salary |
| --------------- | ------------------- |
| Special Counsel | $26,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number________If applicable, Level________Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date October 14, 1977

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $_________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32239485 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| I. Charles Mathews                | 8/3/77                                               |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 013 34 3361                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title  | Gross Annual Salary |
| --------------- | ------------------- |
| Special Counsel | $19,500             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item-below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level__________ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date August 3 1977

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Title -If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________

Monthly Annuity $__________ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32239485 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

49 School St.
Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation
a subsidiary of MGIC Investment Corporation
Telephone 414/347-6500

Request for Verification of Employment

LENDER - Complete Items 1 thru 7. Have applicant complete Item 8. Forward directly to employer named in Item 1.
EMPLOYER - Please complete Items 9 thru 16 and return directly to lender named in Item 2.

PART 1-REQUEST

1. To (Name and address of employer)
   Select House Committee On Assassinations
   3369 House Annex #2
   Washington, D.C. 20515

2. From (Name and address of lender)
   1st American Bank for Savings
   572 Columbia Road
   Dorchester, Mass. 02125

3. Signature of Lender

4. Title
   Mortgage Officer

5. Date

6. Lender's I.D. Number
   (Optional)

have applied for a mortgage loan and stated that I am now or was formerly employed by you. My signature below authorizes verification of this information.

7. Name and Address of Applicant
   Isiah C. Mathews 4827 S. 8th Rd. Arlington, Va.

8. Signature of Applicant

PART II- VERIFICATION

EMPLOYMENT DATA

9A. Is Applicant Now Employed By You?
* YES  NO (If "No," complete Items 9c and 9d.)

9B. How Long Has Applicant. Been Employed By You?
(If Military, enter total service)
8-3-77

9C. Date Applicant Left
still employed

9D. Reason For Leaving
-

10. Present Position
    Special Counsel

11. Probability of Continued Employment
    Yes

13. Remarks

PAY DATA

12A. Base Pay (Enter amount and check period) $30,000.00
* ANNUAL  HOURLY
  MONTHLY  OTHER (Specify)
  WEEKLY

12B. Earnings Last 12 Months
11-1-77 to 10/31/78

| Type     | Amount     |
| -------- | ---------- |
| Base Pay | $28,666.67 |

12C. To Be Completed for Military Personnel Only

Pay Grade

| Type               | Monthly Amount |
| ------------------ | -------------- |
| Base Pay           | $              |
| Rations            | $              |
| Flight or Hazard   | $              |
| Overtime           | $              |
| Clothing           | $              |
| Commissions        | $              |
| Bonus              | $              |
| Pro Pay            | $              |
| Overseas Or Combat | $              |


Signature of Employer

The above information is provided in strict confidence in response to your request.

15. Title
    Budget Officer

16. Date
    10-31-78

information on this form is Confidential. It is to be transmitted directly to the lender, without passing through the hands of the applicant or any
third party.
NW 88326
Docld:32239485 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

MEMORANDUM

To: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer

From: G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Staff Director

Date: October 14, 1977

Re: Salary Adjustments

This is your authorization to increase the salaries of the
below listed employees to the amounts indicated effective October 1, 1977:

Michael C. Eberhardt $34,000
Marjorie A. Eagle 14,500
I. Charles Mathews 26,000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Pudget Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

Aug. 3, 1977
Date

NW 88326
DocId:32239485 Page 11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

June 29, 1977

Mr. Isiah C. Mathews
21 Pearl Street
Danbury, Connecticut 06810

Dear Mr. Mathews:

Mr. Blakey asked that I send you the enclosed forms to be completed by you prior to your employment with the Select Committee on Assassinations. Instructions have been attached to the forms, and if you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me.

We look forward to meeting you.

Very truly yours,

Elizabeth Berning
Administrative Assistant to
G. Robert Blakey

EB
Enclosures

NW 88326
DocId:32239485 Page 12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Isiah C. Mathews

21 Pearl Street
Danbury, Connecticut 06810

Will begin work around end of July or 1st of August

$19,500 subject to subsequent judgment

Will be Special Assistant to Blakey

*Counsel*

Please send all forms, etc. needed to begin employment and obtain security clearance.

NW 88326
DocId:32239485 Page 13


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)