JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 10/7/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10113-10246
RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 014336

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: MORIARTY, JACK
TO: BRADY, SURRELL
TITLE: LAWRENCE HUBER FLORER
DATE: 06/28/1978
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: USAF; FILES
DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/25/1995
OPENING CRITERIA:
COMMENTS: Box 256.

> Released under the John F. Kennedy
> Assassination Records Collection Act of
> 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
> 88326 Date: 2025

v9.1

NW 88326 Docld:32265120 Page 1

1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MEMORANDUM

TO:
Surell Brady
Counsel, JFK

FROM:
Jack Moriarty
Investigator, JFK

DATE:
June 28, 1978

RE:
Lawrence Huber Florer

I responded to Judy Miller's office (3-E-854) in the Pentagon this date and viewed U.S.A.F. file (Registry #4198089), accompanied by a secretary during my inspection of the file's contents.

Essentially, the subject's file reveals he enlisted in the United States Air Force 8-30-62 in Dallas, Texas, for a period of six years. He received an honorable discharge 8-29-68 at Hensley Field, Dallas, Texas. His assignment as a member of the 136th Air Refueling Group, Texas Air National Guard, Hensley Field, Dallas, Texas 75211, changed from Basic Airman to Sergeant (Specialty Accounting), but not geographically.

This record goes on to reflect he was born in Dallas, Texas, 7-25-40, lived with his mother, Gladys H. Florer at 3609 Potomac, Dallas (father deceased), attended local schools ultimately graduating from N.T.S.U. (Denton, twenty miles north of Dallas) with a B.B.A. in accounting in 1962.

Aside from basic training, he received no special education while assigned to "Air Rflg Gp (TAC), Tex ANG, USNAS, Dallas, Texas."

His service Serial Number is listed as AF 25988326; Social Security #463 62 2151; married Barbara Watson (dob 10-13-44) 8-28-66 in Wichita Falls, Texas, changing their residence to 3736 Glencoe, Apartment #117, Dallas, Texas 75206 (later moved to Apartment #202).

He was promoted to Airman Third Class 11-24-62 and to Sergeant 11-4-63.

A check of his attendance record discloses he normally pursued his military career on weekends.

Example: 11-9-63 (Sat.)
11-10-63 (Sun.)
12-7-63 (Sat.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

- 2 -

Although no photos exist (in the file), his medical records reveal his general health is normal, he wears glasses (20/200 vision w/o aid). He has a 6" scar on inner left arm and is 5'9", 175 pounds, with blue hair and eyes.

Nothing of a disciplinary nature was noted.

br


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)