# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10454
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 8
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107
Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326
Docld:32239462 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10454

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORD

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :
DATE: 06/06/77
PAGES: 8

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
JONES, DIANA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

JONES, Diana
Name of Employee

Address

Address

Phone Number

Position Titla

Position Number Level Step

OFFICE OF THE CLERK
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
1978
YEAR

DATE OF APPOINTMENT
6-6-77

ANNUAL LEAVE
CATEGORY
1.  0

BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR

Annual Sick
Leave Leavo
0 2

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE
1.  5
2.  0

Years Months


DAY OF MONTH
Month 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31

ACCRUED
THIS MONTH
Annual. Sick
Leave Leave

AVAILABLE
THIS MONTH
Annual Sick
Leave Leave

USED
THIS MONTH
Annual Sick
Leave Leave

BALANCE
AT CLOSE
OF MONTH
Annual Sick
Leave Leave
EMPLOYEE
INITIALS

Jan. A SSSSS // 1 3 5 1 2

Feb. 2 1 2 1

Mar. S // 3 0 3 1

Apr. AA AS // 4 0 4 0

May

June

July

Aug.

Sept.

Oct. Terminated 5/31/78

Nov.

Dec.

= 0.5 day annual leave

= 1.0 day annual leave

= 0.5 day sick leave

S or S = 1.0 day sick leave

= 0.5 day administrative leave

A or = 1.0 day administrative leave

U = 0.5 day unauthorized absence

U or U= 1.0 day unauthorized absence

= 0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employee's Signature Date
(If employee refuses to sign, state reason below.)

Chief's Signature Date

Approved: Clerk of the Houso Date

This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along
with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

EXHIBIT I

NW 88326
Docld:32239462 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Diana N. Jones                             | 5/31/78                                                                                       |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                                |
| 578-58-2498                                | Appointment                                                                                   |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | Salary Adjustment                                                                             |
| Assassinations                             | Title Change                                                                                  |
|                                            | Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                          |
|                                            | Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business_________) |
|                                            | Specify Date                                                                                  |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number __________ If applicable, Level __________ Step __________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date May 4, 1978

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN
(Type or print name and title of above official) (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED: __________
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code __________ ID __________

Monthly Annuity $__________ .00 as of __________ Benefits __________

Payroll __________ (Revised: August 1 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239462 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel d.e.m.

DATE: May 4, 1978

RE: Termination

Please be advised that effective Friday, April 28,
1978, Mrs. Diana Jones resigned from the Committee staff.
Her effective termination date will be May 31, 1978,
and will include any annual or sick leave she is entitled
to.

If you have any questions concerning this matter,
please contact me at your convenience.

ICM:j

NW 88326
DocId:32239462 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Diana N. Jones                    | March 1, 1978  |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action |
| ------------------------------- | -------------- |
| 578-58-2498                     | Appointment    |


Salary Adjustment
Title Change
Termination (At close of business on effective date)
Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business.

Specify Date


| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |
| ------------------------------------------ |
| Assassinations                             |


(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
| Secretary      | $16,000              |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.
2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956 of 95 Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date March 14, 1978

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name and title of above official)
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman

(Title -If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code ID
Benefits
Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of Payroll

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32239462 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Diana N. Jones                    | 6/6/77         |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action                                       |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| 578 58 2498                     | ☑ Appointment                                        |
| Employing Office or Committee   | Salary Adjustment.                                   |
| Assassinations                  | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Secretary      | $12,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff-☐ Clerical or☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level__________ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 31.10(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date__________ 6/6 , 1977

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title-If Member; District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration...

Office of Finance use only::
Office Code__________
Monthly Annuity $______.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239462 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

MEMORANDUM

TO:

CHAIRMAN STOKES

FROM:

TOM LAMBETH

DATE:

June 7, 1977

RE:

Diana Jones

I recommend approval of the attached which will bring the size of the clerical staff of the King unit up to that of the Kennedy unit.

NW 88326
DocId:32239462 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Lambeth

FROM: Robert J. Lehner

DATE: June 2, 1977

SUBJECT: Diana Jones

I recommend that Diana Jones be employed as a secretary in the King Unit at $12,000 annual salary, effective June 6, 1977.

EMH:ek

![signature]

![signature]

NW 88326
DocId:32239462 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

![Date]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)