# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10071-10000
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document:
Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10071-10000

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 12/16/76

PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
PRICE, PATRICIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/03/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

June 16, 1977

Miss Patricia Price
4605 Mayhunt Court
Alexandria, Virginia 22314

Dear Pat:

I want you to know how much the Committee and I appreciate your service and how much we regret that you will no longer be a member of the staff.

You have our best wishes always.

Sincerely yours,

Louis Stokes
Chairman

LS:tle


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. JOHN B. ANDERSON, ILL.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN. CHARLES THONE, NEBR.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

## Select Committee on Assassinations

**U.S. House of Representatives**

3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

May 16, 1977

The Honorable Louis Stokes, Chairman
Select Committee on Assassinations

Dear Mr. Chairman:

I hereby tender my resignation effective as of May 31, 1977, inclusive.

I have very much enjoyed working with the Committee staff and its Members, and wish you and the Committee success in your endeavors.

With best wishes, I am

Yours sincerely,

![signature of Patricia Price]

Patricia Price

NW 88326
Docld:32244442 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | :------------: |
| Patricia Lynn Price               |    5/31/77     |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action |
| 228 98 6892                       |                |
| Employing Office or Committee     |                |
| Assassinations                    |                |

Appointment
Salary Adjustment
☑ Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | :-----------------: |
|                |                     |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number____________ If applicable, Level________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date May 31 1977

Louis Stokes
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity: $___________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32244442 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)  | Effective Date                                       |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Patricia Lynn Price                | 1/3/77                                               |
| Employee Social Security Number    | Type of Action                                       |
| 228 98 6892                        | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee      | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Select Committee on Assassinations | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title      | Gross Annual Salary |
| ------------------- | ------------------- |
| Mail/Document Clerk | $6,500.00           |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.222 of 95th__Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date ____________________, 19____________________

Henry B. Gonzalez
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:___________________________________________
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code ____________________

Monthly Annuity $______________.00

NW 88326
DocId:32244442 Page 6
Copy for Initiating Office or Committee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)  |
| ---------------------------------- |
| Patricia Lynn Price                |
| Employee Social Security Number    |
| 228 98 6892                        |
| Employing Office or Committee      |
| Select Committee on Assassinations |

| Effective Date                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------- |
| 12/16/76                                             |
| Type of Action                                       |
| Appointment                                          |
| Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| Clerk          | $6,500              |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.):

1. Standing Committee: Staff -☐ Clerical or Professional..

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 1540 of 34th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date December 16 1976

(Signature of Authorizing Official)
Thomas H. Downing, Chairman

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
Select Committee on Assassinations
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

MEMORANDUM

TO: All Staff Employees

FROM: Budget Officer

DATE: January 3, 1977

RE: Payroll Certification

Starting with the January, 1977 payroll, the certification to the House Finance Office requires, among other things, the relationship, if any, of each staff employee to any current Member of Congress (those taking office January 3, 1977).

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father nephew brother-in-law
mother niece sister-in-law
son husband stepfather
daughter wife stepmother
brother father-in-law stepbrother
sister mother-in-law stepsister
uncle son-in-law half-brother
aunt daughter-in-law half-sister
first cousin

All staff employees are requested to complete this form and return it to the Budget officer.

Approved
Richard A. Sprague

I am not related X

I am related by the following relationship

Patricia Lynn Price
Signature of Employee

1/10/77


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

RESUME

NAME: PATRICIA LYNN PRICE

ADDRESS: 4605 MAYHUNT COURT
ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA 22312

PHONE: 941-2183

DOB: January 25, 1959

POB: Washington, D.C.

SSN: 228-98-6892

FATHER: Herbert C. Price

MOTHER: Dorothy J. Price

GRADUATED FROM : Thomas Jefferson High School
Fairfax County, Virginia
June 1976

SUMMER EMPLOYEE: U.S. Capitol Guide Force
From June to Sept. 30, 1976

PRESENT EMPLOYEE: UPS & DOWNS
Dress Shop
Springfield Mall
Springfield, Virginia
From November 1976 to present

Position Applied For: Assassination Committee Receptionist.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)