JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 9/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10091-10228

RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 008822

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: ROBERTS, WARREN
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 05/18/1978
PAGES: 11

SUBJECTS: ...ACTIVITIES, FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE
AUSTIN, HORACE J.
BRINQUIER, CARLOS JOSE
ROBERTS, WARREN
HERNANDEZ, CELSO MACARIO
OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, POLITICAL AND
SUBVERSIVE..
CRUZ, MIGUEL MARIANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/25/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Attached notes. Box #:160.


Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
Case#:NW 88326 Date: 2025

v9.1
NW 88326 DocId:32254170 Page 1

1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

KENNEDY

008822

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

Identifying Information:

Name Warren Roberts

Address 501 N. Rampart St.

City/State New Orleans, La.

Date 5-18-78

Place 501 N. Rampart St.

Telephone 586-5011

Date of Birth 3-30-41

Social Security 435-56-3193

M or S

Spouse

Children

Physical Description:

Height 6'2"

Color Eyes Blue Hair Blond

Weight 225

Special Characteristics

Ethnic Group Caucasian


Personal History:

a. Present Employment: Sergeant New Orleans Police Department

Address 715 S. Broad St.

Telephone 586-5011

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator Robert Buras

Date

Form #4-B

NW 88326 Docld: 32254170 Page 2.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# KENNEDY
SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name Warren Roberts Date 5-1878 Time 3:00PM

Address 501 N. Rampart St. Place 501 N. Rampart St.

New Orleans, La.

Interview:

Investigator Robert Buras spoke with Sgt. Roberts relative to the attached report dated Aug. 12, 1963. Roberts stated that he was in company with Sgt. Horace Austin who actually made the report. The Officers spoke with all the arrested subjects in one room at the same time. The only interest at that time was to ascertain the possiblity of trouble from any individual or group represented by the arrested subjects. Feelings were high in the room and Roberts had to caution the Cubans to keep from trying to argue with Oswald. At one point in the interview the Commanding Officer of the First District, Captain James Arnold, came into the room and asked Oswald if the Fair Play For Cuba Committee was communist or a communist front. Oswald denied that he was a communist and that the organization was a communist front. Oswald stated that he joined the F.P.C.C. after finding a leaflet on the street and sending $5.00 to New York. He also stated that he met with members locally but did not want to give any names etc. Roberts stated that he did not see or hear anything about Oswald wanting to call or talk with an F.B.I. Agent while he was there. Roberts couldn't remember any other details about the interview.

End Of Memo

Interviewer Signature

Typed Signature

Date transcribed

By: Form #4-A

NW 88326 Docld:32254170 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

TO: Major Presly J. Trosclair Jr. DATE August 12, 1963

FROM: Sgt. Horace J. Austin & Patn. Warren Roberts

SUBJECT: Interview of four male subjects at the First District
Police Station, on Friday, August 9, 1963, after their
arrest from Canal Street.

Sir:

The following information is respectfully reported relative
to the interview of four arrested subjects in the First District
Police Station, beginning at about 4:45 P.M., Friday, August 9,
1963, One of the four subjects, identified as Lee Harvey Oswald,
WM, age 23, residing 4907 Magazine Street, had allegedly been
distributing communist literature on Canal Street, and three
Cubans, the other three arrested subjects, had become involved in
an altercation with Oswald, which resulted in the arrest of the
four subjects.

Lee Harvey Oswald furnished the following information when
interviewed.

He is a member of The Fair Play For Cuba Committee, whose
address is 799 Broadway, New York 3, N. Y., telephone OR4-8295.
Oswald had in his possession a National Membership card issuon on
5/28/63, and the presidents name on this card was "V. T. Lee."
Oswald had also a local membership card dated 6/6/63 (N.O. Chapter
of the FPFCC), and the president of the local chapter, whose name
was on the card was "A. Hidell."
Oswald presented his Social Security Card, which did not bear his
signature, and the number of this card was. 433-54-3937.
Oswald presented his U. S. Marine Corp. discharge card (Honorable)
bearing service number 1653230, and date of active duty from
24 Oct 1956 to 11 Sept. 1959.

Oswald stated he was born in New Orleans on October 18, 1939,
that he is about 5' 9" tall, about 140 lbs., and is a mechanic by
trade. He stated he did mechanic work in the Marine Corps, and
that he is presently unemployed and has been so about three weeks.
Before he was laid-off, Oswald stated, he worked at the Louisiana
Coffee Company for about three months, and before that he had
worked at Fort Worth, Texas, at a sheetmetal place. Oswald stated
he worked in Fort Worth at the sheetmetal place for several months,
but was very evasive in answering any further questions of
employment prior to that time.

Oswald stated that he lives with his wife, whose maiden name
was Marina Pross, WF, age 21. They were married in Fort Worth,
have one child seventeen months of age, and reside presently at
4907 Magazine Street, lower center, New Orleans.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

- 2 -

Oswald stated that he has two brothers, who reside, like his mother, in Fort Worth, Texas. He stated that his father, John Lee Oswald, is deceased.
Oswald's mother: Marfarette Oswald, resides by herself in Fort Worth, Texas.
Oswald's brothers: Robert Oswald, WM, age 27,
John Oswald, WM, age 32,

Oswald stated he had talked to Major Trosclair about getting a permit for F.F.F.C.C. and the Major advised him to consult his attorney. Oswald said he never did go and see about a permit at city hall.

Oswald further stated the Cubans came up to him where he was giving out the leaflets and began to tear them up and throw them in the street. Oswald stated that they started to yell that he was a communist and about that time the officers from the First Disteict came up and a crowd had gathered. Oswald stated he joined the Fair Play for Cuba Committee when he found a leaflet on the street one day and read what was on it, and sent $5.00 to the address which was in New York city and after a brief period of time he was sent material through the mail and contacted locally, and he started to attend the meetings, which he stated were held in each others homes. Oswald stated they, the members, get together and talk about how it would be to visit Cuba, life in Cuba, etc..

Oswald denied the organization was communist, or a communist front, when asked by Captain James Arnold, Commanding Officer of the First Police District, who came in during the interview, but Oswald had in his possession and was carrying a piece of cardboard with"VIVA VIVA Fidel" painted on it and the paraphernalia he was handing out was pasted on this cardboard also. Oswald stated he has never been to Cuba, and it appeared as though he is being used by these people and is very uninformed and knows very little about this organization that he belongs to and its ultimate purpose or goal. Oswald stated that the people that attend these informal meetings are working class people, such as clerical, trades, etc..

The three Cubans were interviewed and furnished the following information:

#1. Celso Macario Hernandez, WM, age 47, D.O.B. 1/8/16,
Social Security number 265-76-8756

Hernandez statld he came to the United States via Miami, Florida, on October 9, 1962, with his family and he was a traveling book salesman in Cuba. He came to New Orleans on January 8, 1963 and resides at 519 Adele Street, New Orleans with his family. He has not had any employment except for a few days of manual labor in Miami, Florida, and is presently on relief or welfare.

- 2 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

- 3 -

The names of the family of Celso M. Hernandez are as follows:
Wife: Maria De La Caridad Valero, WF, age 41 (Maiden name)
Daughter: Maria De Los Angles, WF, age 14
Son: Nicholas Pablo, WM, 11
Daughter: Teresita, WF, age 6

Hernandez stated he saw Oswald at approximately 1:30 P.M., August 9, 1963, passing out communist literature and he went and got his friends at 107 Decatur Street and at first they were unable to locate this subject Oswald when they got on the Canal Street streetcar, and they rode to Jefferson Davis Avenue and not being able to locate Oswald they returned to 107 Decatur Street, the Casa Roca retail clothing store. They remained there until someone came in and told them where Oswald was and they then proceeded to that location, where the three of them were carrying the sign described in formation relative to Carlos Bringuier in this memo. They then began to argue with Oswald and a crowd gathered and they were all (four) arrested by the police.

#2. Carlos Jose Bringuier, age 29, D.O.B. 6/22/34, 5'8", 150 lbs., residiing 501 Adele Street, residing this address about three months, born in Havana, Cuba.

Bringuier stated he is manager of the Casa Roca retail clothing store, located 107 Decatur Street, New Orleans. He began his employment about October 1, 1962.

Bringuier previously residing at 2046 Pelopidas Street.
He lives with his wife and four children.
Wife: Maria Del Carmen (Bearce), WF, age 25
Born in Argentina, Buenos Aires
Married in Buenos Aires, April 14, 1956
Entered U. S. February 8, 1961, at Miami, Florida, by plane.
Wife entered U. S. in Miami in May, 1961.
Ages of children are 6, 5, 3 and 2.

Julio and Vicenta Bringuier, mother and father, reside at 1769 S. W. 17th. Street, Miamai, Florida, Bringuier stated. Julio was born in 1895 in Remedios, Cuba, entered the U. S. after invasion, believed by Bringuier to be in May of 1961. Vicenta was born in 1894 in Moron, Cuba, and entered the U. S. with Julio.

Carlos Bringuier gave the following names of his brothers and sisters:
Julio Enrique Bringuier, (brother), age 41, born Moron, Cuba, now residing 1769 SW. 17th. Street, Miami, entered the U. S. at end of 1961.
Maria Gertrudis (Pelaez) age 42, (sister), resides 2224 Mendez Street, married to Rolando Pelaez, who also works at the Casa Roca clothing store, 107 Decatur Street, New Orleans.
Juan Feliepe Bringuier, age 35, (brother), born in Cuba, entered the U. S. December 24, 1962, resides in New York City, is unmarried.
Maria Del Carmen (Medina), age 39, (sister), married to Jorge Medina, age 41, who is in Cuba. Maria Del Carmen lives in Iberville project

- 3 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

- 4 -

in New Orleans, believed to be on Iberville Street. Jorge Medina was
working in Criminal Court in Havana, went crazy.

Carlos Jose Bringuier also gave the following information
relating to himself.
His social security number 435-64-3717,
His selective service number 16 42 34 462, classified 5-A,
local board #42, New Orleans, dated August 24, 1961
Fossesses Louisiana drivers license number 1585883, date of
issue 2/26/62, address on license 4525 Duplessis Street.
Possesses Immigrant Resident card #A 12 546 223, dated 2/8/61

Bringuier further stated that he is a local delegate of the
CUBAN STUDENT DIRECTORATE, in City of New Orleans, appointed by
one Jose Antonio Lanuza, Secretary, American Affairs, Cuban
Student Directorate, P.C. Box 805, Main Post Office, Miami, Florida,
telephone Franklin 3-1476.

Bringuier stated that his first job in New Orleans was with
the California Redwood Produce Co., on S. Peters Street, owned by
Mr. L. C. Levy. Bringuier stated he worked here two days.

Bringuier then worked at Mac's Discount House, located at
714 Canal Street, for about one year, beginning April 1, 1961.

Bringuier then became a self employed pedler in April of 1962
with his brother-in-law, Rolando Pelaez. They bought clothing and
radios wholesale and went aboard ships to sell same. Bringuier
stated that he had a Fort Security Card.

Bringuier then stated that on October 1, 1962, he opened
the Casa Roca clothing store, 107 Decatur Street, and has been
working here until this date.

Bringuier stated that he keeps the sign, in the Cuban's
possession at the time of arrest this date, in his store.
This sign measures about 3 feet by 4 feet, with a picture of the
Statue of Liberty, hand with dagger `on end of long chain, and Cuba
ringed by two links of the chain. The sign reads "Danger! Only
90 miles from U.S.A., Cuba lies in chains!"

Bringuier stated that the sign was given to him by Arnesto
Rodriguez, age in his 30's, who resided at 1208 St. Charles Street
in New Orleans, at the time Arturo Frondizi came to New Orleans
in January or February of 1962. Bringuier believes Frondizi is
a communist, and he has two brothers in Argentina who are
Communists.

Bringuier further stated that he came to New Orleans right
from Miami, Florida, by Greyhound bus, arriving in New Orleans
✓on February 18, 1961.

#3. Miguel Mariano Cruz, age 18, D.O.B. 9/27/44, residing
2526 Mazant Street, New Orleans, unmarried, lives with
mother, father and three sisters.

4

NW 88326 Docld:32254170 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

- 5 -

Mother: Victoriana (Enriquez) Cruz, age 56
Father: Claudio Cruz, age 64, unemployed, on Welfare.
Sisters: Hordensia Maria Cruz, age 26, a student at Capelle
Beauty Schoold, 1509 St. Charles Avenue.
Ina Josefa Cruz, age 25, stays at home.
Maria Teresa Cruz, age 19, works at a petroleum company
at night.

Miguel Mariano Cruz stated that he is unemployed and is a
student Nichols High School, 11th. grade, in New Orleans.

Miguel Cruz presented his Selective Service Card, #16 145 44 483,
classified 1-A, dated 5/27/61, Local Board #145, Orleans Parish.,
also his Immigrant resident card #A 12 920 831, bearing name
"Miguel Mariano Cruz Enriquez".

Miguel Cruz stated that he entered the U. S. in San Juan,
Puerto Rico, on December 5, 1962, went to Miami, Florida, right
away, stayed for two days, in Plaza Hotel, and left Miami and
came right to New Orleans, arriving December 12, 1962. He
stated that his parents and three sisters entered the U. S. on
the same date.

When asked about other relations, Miguel Cruz named the
following brothers.
Paul Cruz, age 32, address unknown, in New Orleans, married,
wife's name "Olga". Has two children, and is employed as a
waiter at the Royal Orleans Hotel.
Claudio Cruz, age 33, residing 2569 Congress Street, wife's
name "Angela", no children, employed as Bus Boy at the Royal
Orleans Hotel.
Enrique Cruz, age 23, residing 2601 Bartholomew Street, wife's
name "Olga", no children, is unemployed and on Welfare.

The interview of the above four arrested subjects by
Sgt. Austin and Fatn. Roberts was concluded at approximately
6:00 P.M., same date, August 9, 1963.

Respectfully,

![signature of Horace J. Austin Jr.]

Sgt. Horace J. Austin Jr.

Patn. Warren Roberts Jr.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

6/6/63 G.tti Dell

cocial secunty # 433-54-3937

See Harvey Oswald

in USMC #1653230
24 Oct. 1956 to 11 Sept 1959

W/m78 Oct 18, 1939. born in N.O.
5'9" 14pcs Machine

Marccand- Marina Prose w/F 21

1 child - 17 mths

Washed at La Colfer for 3 mths.
at Worth Sears, worked for several mths.

Talked to mgr about obtaining permit. But has never applied for any

Cols came up to love up reflects &

Robert Oswald W/427

John Oswald W/132


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Jain Play & Cuba Committee

199 Bicliway NY, 3.N4 Oct-8295

Lee H. Oswald - V.T. Lee
issued 5/28/63

FPFCC N.O, Chozetta

6/6/63 A. Hi. Dece

social security # 433-54-3937
See Harvey Oswald

in MSMC #165 3230
24 Oct. 1956 to 11 Sept 1959

w/m28 Oct 18, 1939. born in N. O.
5'9" 14 pes Mechan

Maccaid - Marina Prose w/F 21 Work
1 Child - 17 mths.

Washed at La. coffeer to 3 mths.
at work Jeans, worked for severl mths.

Talked to Major about obtaining a
permit. But have never applied for any.

Claims come up & tone up

NW-88326-Dodd:32254170 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

endel 5 pm

5:15 PM 9/9/63

Celso Macario Hernandez
W/M 47 DOB 1/8/16

265-76-8756

Oct 9, 1962 came to his vid
Miami Ha

1/2/63 came to N.O.

Traveling look de

519 Celela Sti resadame.

Marsa De La Caridad Valeros
main De Los angeles W/F 14
Nicholas Pablo W/m 11
Deresita W/F6

135 went to Canal st. (chored age
PM stone)

all 3 camping together


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Over by self

Wilma Marguerite Oswald w/f Dick West

John Lee Oswald w/m (Deceased)

4907 Magazine (Lower center)

ended 5:15

5:15 PM 8/9/63

Celso Macario Hernandez
w/m 47 DOB 1/8/16

265 - 76-8756

Oct 9, 1962 came to U.S. and Miami, Fla.

1/2/63 came to N.O.

traveling took sleeman in Cuba

519 Celeste St. residence

Maria De La Caridad Valero w/f

Maria De Los Angela w/f 14

Carlos Pavilos w/m 11


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)