# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10060-10481
RECORD SERIES: SSTAFF PAYROLL RECORD
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

'NW 88326
Docld:32239489 Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10481

RECORDS SERIES:
STAFF PAYROL RECORD

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 05/01/78

PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
MCDONALD, JAMES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32239489 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| James McDonald                    | 10/2/78        |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 047-34-7188                     | Appointment Salary Adjustment Title Change Termination (At close of business on effective date) Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business_ _) |

| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |
| ------------------------------------------ |
| Assassinations                             |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |
|                |                      |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number_ If applicable, Level Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date October 2 19 78

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Signature of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official) LOUIS STOKES CHAIRMAN (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $_________.00 as of

ID

Benefits

Payroll (Revised: August 1. 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32239489 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# Certificate of Relationship/Nonrelationship to
Any Current Member of Congress

Date 5/2/78

To: Select Committee on ASSASSINATIONS
(Employing Authority)


I certify that I do not have any of the following relationships to any current Member of Congress.

father nephew sister-in-law
mother niece stepfather
son husband stepmother
daughter wife stepson
brother father-in-law stepdaughter
sister mother-in-law stepbrother
uncle son-in-law stepsister
aunt daughter-in-law half-brother
first cousin brother-in-law half-sister

I certify that I am the _________________________________________________ of the

__________________________________________________________________________
(Relationship)

Honorable _________________________________________________________________
(Name of Member to whom related)

![signature]

__________________________________________________________________________
(Employee)

GPO 16-78695-3

NW 88326
DocId:32239489 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel

DATE: May 4, 1978

RE: Mr. James McDonald

Please be advised that effective Monday, May 1, 1978, Mr. James McDonald has accepted the position of Senior Staff Counsel with the John F. Kennedy Task Force. His effective starting salary will be $38,000.00 per annum and he will remain on the Committee payroll until on or about October 15, 1978.

If you have any questions concerning this matter, please contact me at your convenience.

ICM:j

NW 88326
DocId:32239489 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| James McDonald                    | 5/1/78         |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action |
| ------------------------------- | -------------- |
| 047-34-7188                     |                |

| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |
| ------------------------------------------ |
| Assassinations                             |

*   Appointment
*   Salary Adjustment
*   Title Change
*   Termination (At close of business on effective date)
*   Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _)

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title       | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------------- | -------------------- |
| Senior Staff Counsel | 38.000               |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 956_of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.).

Position Number. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _If applicable, Level _ _ _ _ Step_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date May 1, 1978

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES, CHAIRMAN
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official)
(Title- If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
ID _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

Monthly Annuity $ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .00 as of _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Benefits _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

Payroll _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326
Docld:32239489 Page 6


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)