# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Central Intelligence Agency has no Objection to Release Date: AS SANITIZED 2003

Box 55
Folder 1

8/1/78
Palmer

Orlando Bosch Avila - DDO - Six Volumes

# 201-299 292

Volume I - Third agency material in eight sealed envelopes, all FBI

*   Undated report

Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila CAMDITTO/23/
DPOB: 18 Aug. 1926, Santa Clara, Cuba

Bosch was one of many critical of CIA policy & personnel following Bay of Pigs.
However, in March 1962, WAVE requested a POA on Bosch, advising he was "Cooperative and secure." To be utilized as General Coordinator of Evelio Duque group. POA granted on 6 March 1962.

Given polygraphs in May 1962 & came out clean. His Clearance was cancelled in Nov. 1962.

Bosch aligns himself with individuals and organizations that are currently involved in operations against Cuba, usually serving as General Coordinator & takes responsibility for securing financial backing.

0003437

7 June 1965

Biographical Data Report - Orlando Bosch Avila

Personal Data: Bosch is shrewd, cunning, devious & deceptive. He is primarily an adventurer & probably an anarchist rather than a true revolutionary. He is probably paranoid psycopath. He is a good doctor but neglects his job to devote time to raiding activities. He is a notorious liar & has several times

10145-10301


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Galman (2)
8/1/78
Bosch

Announced raids over Cuba which never occurred.

Volume II - No. notes 1965-68.
Third agency deletions - nine sealed envelopes - all FBI

Volume III 1968-1974
3rd agency deletion - 16 sealed envelopes - all FBI
No. notes

Volume IV 1975-1978
Third agency deletions - 23 sealed envelopes.
@ DOD document - Intelligence Report dtd 9 June 1976
# 2 231 0221 76
470 the MI group, Ft Amador- Canal Zone.
Subject: Cuban Exile Terorist group

SS Cable 21 Feb. 1976. - San Jose 105
Subject: Re Arrest of Juan Bosch at this location

@ 5 envelopes 55 documents re: visit of Henry Kissinger to Caracac, circa Feb-1976.

Reminder = FBI USAF Cable from JCS 10 Jan 1978
File # MSGNO 46 (MIIR) Subject: Venezuelan Aircraft security Threat Expanded.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Palmer
SECRET
8/1/78
Bosch

State Cables - Nov, Dec. 1977 - Vesas for wife & child of Orlando Bosch

State Cables - bombings - July 12-13, 1976

Remainder sealed envelopes - FBI documents

12. Feb. 1976 Cable IN 824723

CITE: Caracas 29063

To: Priority director, Santiago, Buenos Aires, LA/Miami

WKSCARLET-3 (former unilateral asset) advises he is investigating bombing Cuban ambassador, Caracas + is travelling during week of 15 Feb. to Santiago, Buenos Aires & Miami

Cuban Ambassador Norberto Hernandez Curbelo reported receiving bomb in large manila envelope, bearing return address of. Dr. Gustavo A. Vollmer.
WK Scarlet/1, former WK Scarlet chief, is security consultant & Vollmer & has retained WKScarlet/3 who is operating a commercial investigations service, to determine who used Vollmer's name. WK Scarlet/3 maintains contacts with Orlando Bosch.

18 Feb. 1976 Cable IN 830506 CITE: Caracas 27129

Frank Castro had knowledge of attempt to assassinate, nephew of Allende told WK Scarlet/3.
In order to use information, Agency afraid they will compromise WK Scarlet/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET Palmer 8/1/78
Enlands Bosch

Volume I. August 1976- October 1976
Third Agency Detitione - 10 Sealed enveloper, stats & FBI
No. Noler:

Volume II
Third Agency deletions - 6 pealed enveloper.
4. FBI - 2 State- Det-1976

0. 12 now. 1976
   Cable 943114
   To: Priority Santiago Jufs stain Jose, Caracas
   #2 Morales was source of numerous ceerer
   service reports during Kissinger visit to
   Caracas in Seb. 1976 on reported attempt by Bour
   ะช kill Kissinger. One 55 report indicated
   Morales had provided. Caracas legal attache
   with reliable info in the past.

Dispatch 15 Nov 1976
f Chief: LA. Devision.
From. Chief of Station, Pants
Noe Byson. W. Jutradt met WK Scarlet 13.
in 1964 when both were enrolled in OCS
at t. Benning, Ga.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Hoone Documents.

![SECRET stamp]

Palmer
8/1/78
Bouch

One sealed envelope - FBI. documents detetid

Bosch, Orlando. -TC-97563,

One sealed envelope -Office of Seccinity Suformation

![number] 0303441


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)