# Assassination Records Review Board
Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10327
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

> Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).
> Case#:NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326
DocId:32243293 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 08/20/93
Page: 1

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10068-10327

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE : 10/03/77
PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
COOPER, CYNTHIA S.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS: P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :
Box #:1.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED
NW 88326
DocId:32243293 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Cynthia S. Cooper                          | December 2, 1976                                                                                           |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                                             |
| 262-08-0274                                | Appointment                                                                                                |
|                                            | Salary Adjustment                                                                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | Title Change                                                                                               |
| Assassinations                             | Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                                       |
|                                            | Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business__________ Specify Date |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res.956_of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________If applicable, Level __________ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date December 11, 1973

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name and title of above official) (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only: ID

Office Code Benefits

Monthly Annuity $______ .00 as of Payroll

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32243293 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use. Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen)
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------- |
| Cynthia S. Cooper                          | March 1, 1978  |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action |
| 263-08-0234                                |                |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |                |
| Assassinations                             |                |

*   Appointment
*   Salary Adjustment
*   Title Change
*   Termination (At close of business on effective date)
*   Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending
    close of business__________ Specify Date)

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title         | Gross Annual Salary* |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- |
| Document Control Clerk | $14,000              |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.
2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.956 of Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.).

Position Number__________If applicable, Level__________ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date March 14, 19 78

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) (Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES

(Type or print name and title of above official) (Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Title If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________

Monthly Annuity $___________.00 as of__________

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

ID __________

Benefits __________

Payroll __________

(Revised: August 1 1977)

NW 88326
DocId:32243293 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Cynthia Sue Cooper                | October 3, 1977                                      |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 263-08-0234                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     |                                                      |
| Assassinations                    | Salary Adjustment                                    |
|                                   | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title         | Gross Annual Salary |
| ---------------------- | ------------------- |
| Document Control Clerk | $12,000.00          |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 405 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number If applicable, Level Step

I. certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of
relatives.

Date October 11, 1977

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)
Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em-
ployees; except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code
Monthly Annuity $ .00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
Docld:32243293 Page 5
eb


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer
FROM: Charlie Mathews, Special Counsel
DATE: October 3, 1977
RE: Ms. Cindy Cooper

Ms. Cindy Cooper has accepted the position of Document
Control Clerk with the John F. Kennedy Task Force. Her
effective starting date will be October 3, 1977, and her
starting salary will be $12,000.00 per annum.

Your full co-operation will be appreciated in familiarizing
Ms. Cooper with staff procedures and welcoming her aboard.

ICM:jl


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

☑ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

☐ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress. (Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

![Date]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)