# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10155
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326
Docld:32244097 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10155

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 03/21/78

PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS :
HSCA; ADMINISTRATION
SHAPIRO, HOWARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 3.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date: 08/20/93

Page:1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Howard Louis Shapire                       | 12/31/78                                                                                                       |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                                                 |
| 114-44-4360                                | ☐ Appointment                                                                                                  |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ☐ Salary Adjustment                                                                                            |
| Assassinations                             | ☐ Title Change                                                                                                 |
|                                            | Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                                           |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business __________ Specify Date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res.956 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level__________ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date January 2, 1979

(Signature of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
CHAIRMAN

(Type or print name and title of above official)
(Title - If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code__________

ID__________

Benefits__________

Monthly Annuity $__________.00 as of__________

Payroll__________

(Revised: August 1, 1977).

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32244097 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action::

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                               |              |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| Howard Louis Shapiro                       | 3-21-78                                                                                      |              |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                               |              |
| 114-44-4360                                | Appointment                                                                                  |              |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | Salary Adjustment                                                                            |              |
| Assassinations                             | Title Change                                                                                 |              |
|                                            | Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                         |              |
|                                            | Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business________) | Specify Date |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)...

| Position Title      | Gross Annual Salary* |
| ------------------- | -------------------- |
| Researcher Attorney | $18,000              |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 956 of_95t/congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.):

Position Number If applicable, Level Step__

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date March 23 19 78

(Signature of Authorizing Official)

LOUIS STOKES
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

CHAIRMAN
(Title If Member, District and State)

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member)

(Type or print name and title of above official)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification. Act.and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:__

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

ID

Benefits

Payroll.

(Revised: August 1, 1977)
NW 88326
DocId:32244097 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Thomas Howarth, Budget Officer
Elizabeth Berning, Chief Clerk

FROM: I. Charles Mathews, Special Counsel

DATE: 22 March 1978

RE: Mr. Howard Shapiro

Please be advised that effective March 21, 1978,
Mr. Howard Shapiro has accepted the position of Research
Attorney with the John F. Kennedy Task Force, HSCA. His
effective starting salary will be $18,000.00.

If you have any questions concerning this matter,
please contact me at your convenience.

ICM:j

NW 88326
DocId:32244097 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Certificate of Relationship/Nonrelationship to
Any Current Member of Congress

Date 3/23/78

To: House Select Comm. on Assassinations
(Employing Authority)

I certify that I do not have any of the following relationships to any
current Member of Congress.

father
nephew
sister-in-law
mother
niece
stepfather
son
husband
stepmother
daughter
wife
stepson
brother
father-in-law
stepdaughter
sister
mother-in-law
stepbrother
uncle
son-in-law
stepsister
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-brother
first cousin
brother-in-law
half-sister

I certify that I am the ___________________________________________________________ of the
__________________________________________________________________________________________
(Relationship)

Honorable __________________________________________________________________________
(Name of Member to whom related)

Howard L. Shapiro
(Employee)

GPO 16-78695-3

NW 88326
DocId:32244097 Page 6


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)