# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10470
RECORD SERIES : STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 6
Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

> [Figure: A stamp indicating document release information]
> Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326
Docld:32239478 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Date:08/20/93
Page:1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10060-10470

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE :

DATE : 10/11/77
PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS :
HSCA, ADMINISTRATION
LICHTENFELS, BETH ANNE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM
CLASSIFICATION : U
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : P
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/04/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 2.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 88326
DocId:32239478 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen)

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515

(Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Beth Anne Lichtenfels                      | March 1, 1978                                                                                  |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action                                                                                 |
| 042-52-4602                                | ☐ Appointment                                                                                  |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee | ☑ Salary Adjustment                                                                            |
| Assassinations                             | ☐ Title Change                                                                                 |
|                                            | ☐ Termination (At close of business on effective date)                                         |
|                                            | ☐ Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business________) |
|                                            | Specify Date                                                                                   |

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title         | Gross Annual Salary* |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- |
| Document Control Clerk | $14,000              |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. ☐ Standing Committee: Staff - ☐ Clerical or ☐ Professional.

2. ☑ Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority—H. Res. 256 of 95th Congress.

3. ☐ Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________ If applicable, Level__________ Step__________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date March 14, __________, 19 78

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) _________________________________________________________
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
LOUIS STOKES

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Type or print name and title of above official)
Chairman

(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee em- ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code__________

Monthly Annuity $___________.00 as of __________

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

ID __________

Benefits __________

Payroll __________ (Revised: August 1, 1977)

NW 88326
DocId:32239478 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

☑ I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

☐ I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

![signature of employee]

![date]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMORANDUM

TO: Tom Howarth, Budget Officer
FROM: Charlie Mathews, Special Counsel
DATE: October 5, 1977
RE: Ms. Beth Anne Lichtenfels

Ms. Beth Ann Lichtenfels has accepted the position of Document Control Clerk with the John F. Kennedy Task Force. Her effective starting date will be October 11, 1977, and her starting salary will be $12,000.00.

Your full co-operation will be appreciated in familiarizing Ms. Lichtenfels with staff procedures and welcoming her aboard.

ICM:jl


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM

(Please Use Typewriter U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (Any erasures, corrections, or changes
or Ballpoint Pen) Washington, D.C. 20515 on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:"

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date                                       |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Beth Anne Lichtenfels             | October 11, 1977                                     |
| Employee Social Security Number   | Type of Action                                       |
| 042-52-4602                       | Appointment                                          |
| Employing Office or Committee     | Salary Adjustment                                    |
| Assassinations                    | Termination (At close of business on effective date) |

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment; complete the following information.)

| Position Title         | Gross Annual Salary |
| ---------------------- | ------------------- |
| Document Control Clerk | $12,000.00          |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 95th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number______ If applicable, Level ________ Step ___

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of..
relatives.

Date October 11 1977

Louis Stokes
(Signature of Authorizing Official)

Chairman
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)
(Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee-em-
ployees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must
be approved by the Committee on House Administration....

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32239478 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# OFFICIAL SUPERIOR'S REPORT OF TRAUMATIC INJURY

21. Department or Agency
    HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

22. Bureau or Office
    SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

23. Name and Address of Reporting Office (No., street, city, state, Zip Code)
    HOUSE ANNEX #2 3rd AND D STREET, WASHINGTON, D.C.

24. Regular Work Day
    Begins
    [x] AM
    [ ] PM
    Ends
    [ ] AM
    [x] PM
25. Number of Hours Worked Per Day
    8
26. Circle Days Paid Per Week
    S M T W T F S

27. Date and Hour of Injury
    (mo., day, year)
    7/19/78
    [ ] AM
    [x] PM
28. Date Reporting Office Received Notice of Injury
    (mo., day, year)
    7/19/78
29. Date and Hour Stopped Work
    (mo., day, year)
30. If Pay Has Been Terminated, Give Date
    (mo, day, year)-

31. 45 Day Period Begins
    (mo., day, year)
32. Pay Rate When Employee Stopped Work
    $
    per
33. Date and Hour Employee Returned to Work
    (mo., day, year)
    7/19/78
    [ ] AM
    [x] PM
34. Name of Supervisor At Time of Injury
    Thomas Howarth

35. Was Employee In Performance of Duty At The Time of Injury? [x] Yes, [ ] No. If No, Furnish A Detailed Explanation Or A Copy of Employing Agency's Investigation Report.

36. Was Injury Caused By Willful Misconduct, Intoxication or Intent To Injure Self or Another?
    [ ] Yes [x] No. If Yes, Furnish Detailed Report.

37. Was Injury Caused By Third Party?... [ ] Yes [x] No. If Yes, Furnish Name and Address of Party Responsible.

38. Date Employee First Obtained Medical Care for The Injury
    (mo., day, year)
    7/19/78
39. Name and Address of Physician First Providing Medical Care
    SUBURBAN HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM
    BETHESDA, MARYLAND
40. Do Medical Reports Show Employee is Disabled For Work?
    [ ] Yes [x] No

41. Does Your Knowledge of The Facts About This Injury Agree With The Statements of The Employee.And/Or Witness?
    [x] Yes [ ] No. If No, Furnish A Detailed Explanation.

42. Does The Employing Agency Controvert Continuation of Pay? [ ] Yes [x] No. If Yes, Give Full Explanation For Basis of Controversion (See Item 6 of Instruction Sheet). Attach Additional Sheets If More Space Is Needed.

43. Signature of Supervisor
    Thomas Howarth
44. Title and Office Phone Number
    Budget Officer 225-7980
45. Date (mo., day, year)...
    7-27-78

NW 88326
DocId:32239478 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION
OFFICE OF WORKERS' COMPENSATION PROGRAMS

1. Name of Injured Employee (Last, first, middle)
   LICHTENFELS, BETH ANNE

5. Employee's Home Mailing Address (No., street, city, state, zip code)
   4401 EAST WEST HGWY, BETHESDA, MD. APT 300

7. Name and Address of Employing Agency
   House SELECT COMM. ON ASSASSINATIONS Bldg., 12th & Pine)
   3rd AND D STREET, S.W.
   WASHINGTON, D.C.

9. Date and Hour of Injury.
   (mo., day, year)
   7/17/78

13. Cause of Injury (Describe how and why the injury occurred)
    Fall was caused by faulty shoe
    strap which broke and tripped
    injured employee

FEDERAL EMPLOYEE'S NOTICE OF TRAUMATIC INJURY
AND CLAIM FOR CONTINUATION OF PAY/COMPENSATION

2. Date of Birth
   1/5/55

6. Home Telephone
   Area Code: 301
   Number: 654-7184

8. Place Where Injury Occurred (e.g., 2nd floor, Main Post Office
   2nd AND C STREET
   WASHINGTON, D.C.

10. Date of This Notice
    (mo., day, year)
    7/27/78

14. Nature of Injury (Identify the part of the body injured, e.g.,
    fractured left leg, etc.)
    Partially separated right shoulder
    torn rotating cuff, torn and bruised
    tendons, ligaments and muscles. Skin
    burn to right shoulder

11. Dependents.
    Wife/Husband
    Children Under 18 Years Old

12. Employee's
    Occupation
    Doc. Clerk

15. If This Notice and Claim Was Not Filed With The Employing Agency Within 2 Working Days After The Injury, Explain The Reason
    For The Delay.

16. I certify that the injury described above was sustained in performance of duty as an employee of the United States Government and that
    it was not caused by my willful misconduct, intent to injure myself or another person, nor by my intoxication. I hereby claim medical
    treatment, if needed, and the following, as checked below, while disabled for work:

a. Sick and/or annual leave

b. Continuation of regular pay not to exceed 45 days and compensation for wage loss if disability for work continues beyond 45
days (If my claim is denied, I understand that the continuation of my regular pay shall be charged to sick or annual leave, or
be deemed an overpayment within the meaning of 5 USC 5584).

![signature]

17. Statement of Witness (Describe what you saw, heard or know about this injury)

18. Witness' Signature

19. Witness' Address

20. Date Signed
    (mo., day, year)

Form CA-1
Rev. Nov. 1974

NW 88326
DocId:32239478 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C. SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO
WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C. STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.
YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF. CHARLES THONE, NEBR..
CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN. HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICK.
HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.
FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.
ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA,

(202) 225-4624

## Select Committee on Assassinations

### U.S. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 25, 1978

Office of Workers' Compensation Programs
Special Claims Unit
711 - 14th Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20211

Dear Sirs:

We are forwarding herewith Form CA-1 for Beth C. Lichtenfels an employee of this Committee. We apologize for the late filing but we mis-read the instructions.

While Miss Lichtenfels did not require sick or annual leave and the Committee did not controvert continuation of pay, she did require medical treatment.

In the meantime, we filed her Form CA-1 in her personnel file.

Sincerely yours,

![Signature of Thomas Howarth]

THOMAS HOWARTH
Budget Officer

TH:ht

NW 88326
DocId:32239478 Page 9


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)