# Assassination Records Review Board
## Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : HSCA
RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10154
RECORD SERIES: STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

December 8, 1995

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 7

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponements: All the postponements in this document represent Social Security numbers.

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because the public disclosure of the redaction could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and that invasion of privacy would be so substantial that it outweighs the public interest.

Substitute Language: SSN

Date of Next Review: 2017

Board Review Completed: 10/24/95

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW 88326 Date: 2025

NW 88326
Docld:32244096 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10070-10154

RECORDS SERIES :
STAFF PAYROLL RECORDS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 07/11/77

PAGES: 7

SUBJECTS :
HSCA; ADMINISTRATION
SELLECK, ELIZABETH K.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PRINTED FORM

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 3.

NW 88326
DocId:32244096 Page 2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Date: 08/20/93
Page:1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs

December 15, 1978

Ms. Elizabeth K. Selleck
4201 Cathedral Avenue
Washington, DC. 20016

File No: A25-146626
Date of Injury: May 25, 1978
SSN: 531-50-7701

![Department of Labor Logo: eagle clutching arrows and olive branch, surrounded by text Department of Labor United States of America]

We need additional information to make a determination regarding the claim you submitted for the injury indicated above. Please furnish the information requested in the items checked below and on the reverse of this form. Use a separate sheet of paper numbering the answers to correspond with the question numbers.

*   1. The Federal Employees' Compensation Act requires an injured employee to give written notice of injury to his/her supervisor within 30 days. State why this injury was not reported to your supervisor within that time.

*   2. Describe in detail exactly how the injury occurred. (For example, if you fell, state how far you fell, how you landed, etc. If lifting was the cause of injury, describe the object handled, its weight, what you did with it, etc.).

*   3. Give the names of any persons who witnessed your injury or had immediate knowledge of it.

![Signature of John Petty Jr.]

Sincerely,
JOHN PETTY, JR.
Supervisory Claims Examiner

Select Comm. on Assassinations
House of Representatives
HOB #2
Washington, DC. 20515

Include your address, ZIP code, and file number on all correspondence

Ltr. CA-1011
June 1975

NW 88326
Docld:32244096 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

X 4. State the immediate effects of the injury and what you did immediately thereafter.

X 5. Was any other injury sustained, either on or off duty, between the date of injury and the date it was first reported to (a) your supervisor and (b) to a doctor? If so, describe:

X 6. State the exact reason why you delayed seeking medical attention; also give the name and address of the doctor you first consulted and the date you were first examined for this injury:

X 7. Describe (a) your condition between the date of the injury and the date you first received medical attention, and (b) the nature and frequency of any home treatment:

X 8. Did you have any similar disability or symptoms before the injury? If so, describe the prior condition. Give the names and addresses of the physicians who treated you and the approximate dates you were treated:

X 9. Did you ever file a claim for workers' compensation benefits from any source? If so, give the date and nature of the injury, the name and address of the office where the claim was filed, and describe the benefits (if any) which you received:

X 10. Arrange for submission of a medical report on the enclosed Form CA-20 from the private physician who examined you as a result of this injury.

11. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ADMINISTRATION
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs
December 15, 1978
File No.: A25-146626
Date of Injury: May 25, 1978
Employee: Selleck Elizabeth K.

Noncontroverted  Controverted

Select Com. on Assassinations
House of Representatives
HOB #2
Washington, DC. 20515

We have received Form CA-1 reporting an injury and your agency's response to the evidence submitted. It has been determined that:

1.  The facts of the injury and employment support the employee's contention that he/she was a Federal employee who sustained a traumatic disabling injury in the performance of duty. You should, therefore, continue his/her pay for the period of disability not to exceed 45 days.

2.  The information of record is insufficient to make a decision on the case; however, you should continue the employee's pay without interruption. Additional information is required as noted on the reverse of this letter.

3. 
Sincerely

JOHN PETTY JR
Supervisory Claims Examiner

Ms. Elizabeth K. Selleck
4201 Cathedral Avenue
Washington, DC. 20016

Include your address, ZIP code, and file number on all correspondence

Ltr. CA-1038
Rev. Apr. 1977

NW 88326
DocId:32244096 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# OFFICE OF THE CLERK
## U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
# PERSONAL LEAVE RECORD
## 1978

SELLECK, Elizabeth

DATE OF APPOINTMENT
7-11-77

BALANCE BROUGHT
FORWARD FROM
PRECEDING YEAR

Annual
Leave
Sick
Leave

15

ANNUAL LEAVE
CATEGORY
1.0

PRIOR FEDERAL SERVICE
1.5

2.0

ACCRUED
THIS MONTH
AVAILABLE
THIS MONTH
USED
THIS MONTH
BALANCE
AT CLOSE
OF MONTH

| Month | DAY OF MONTH |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | Annual Leave | Sick Leave | Annual Leave | Sick Leave | Annual Leave | Sick Leave | Annual Leave | Sick Leave |
| ----- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ | ---------- | ------------ | ---------- | ------------ | ---------- | ------------ | ---------- |
|       | 1            | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   | 8                  | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  | 13  | 14  | 15  | 16  | 17  | 18  | 19  | 20  | 21  | 22  | 23  | 24  | 25  | 26  | 27  | 28  | 29  | 30  | 31  |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| Jan.  |              |     | X   | X   | X   |     |     |                    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | X   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | /            | /          | 2            | 6          | 3            | 1          | 6            |            |
| Feb.  |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | X   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | /            | /          | 0            | 7          | 1            | 1          | 7            |            |
| Mar.  |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | /            | /          |              |            |              | 0          | 8            |            |
| Apr.  |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | /            | /          |              |            |              | 1          | 9            |            |
| May   |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | /            | /          |              |            |              | 2          | 10           |            |
| June  |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | /            | /          |              |            |              | 3          | 11           |            |
| July  |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |     |     |     | X   | X   | X   | X   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     | 12           | 13         | 4            | 12         |              | 0          | 12           |            |
| Aug.  |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| Sept. |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| Oct.  |              |     |     |     |     |     |     | Terminated 7-15-78 |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| Nov.  |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |
| Dec.  |              |     |     |     |     |     |     |                    |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |              |            |              |            |              |            |              |            |

= 0.5 day annual leave

= 1.0 day annual leave

= 0.5 day sick leave

S or S = 1.0 day sick leave

= 0.5 day administrative leave

A or  = 1.0 day administrative leave

= 0.5 day unauthorized absence

U or U = 1.0 day unauthorized absence

= 0.5 day leave without pay

= 1.0 day leave without pay

CERTIFIED CORRECT:

Employee's Signature Date
(If employee refuses to sign, state reason below)

Approved:

Chief's Signature Date

Clerk of the House Date
This record will be forwarded to the Clerk of the House at the end of each calendar year, or in case of termination, along with the request for termination. Upon approval, the record will be filed in the employee's official personnel folder.

EXHIBIT I


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

7-19-78

Tom:

I need a form CA-1 (Federal Employee's Notice of Traumatic Injury) to file a claim under Workmen's Compensation for a cut on my hand that I suffered on the job in May. Could you mail one to me please.

Thanks,

Uz Selleck

4/20/79 Cathedral

4423 NW #218-W

Washington, DC 20016

![document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter
or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Washington, D.C. 20515
(Any erasures, corrections, or changes
on this form must be initialed by the
authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last)          | Effective Date |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------- |
| Elizabeth K. Selleck                       | 7/15/78        |
| Employee Social Security Number            | Type of Action |
| 531-50-7701                                |                |
| Employing Office or Committee/Subcommittee |                |
| Assassinations                             |                |

*   Appointment
*   Salary Adjustment
*   Title Change
*   Termination (At close of business on effective date)
*   Leave without pay (Beginning with effective date above and ending close of business__________Specify Date)

(If type of action is an Appointment, Salary Adjustment, or Title Change, complete appropriate information below.)

| Position Title | Gross Annual Salary* |
| -------------- | -------------------- |

* If employee is a civil service annuitant (includes U.S. House of Representatives), the gross annual salary shown should include the annuity received by the employee plus the salary received from the employing office.

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff - Clerical or Professional.
2. Special (Investigative staff of Standing Committee) or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 956 of 95th Congress.
3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number______ If applicable, Level ______ Step______

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date July 7 19 73

(If appropriate, signature of Subcommittee Chairman or Ranking Minority Member) LOUIS STOKES, CHAARMAN
(Type or print name of Authorizing Official)

(Type or print name and title of above official) (Title-If Member, District and State)

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:
Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:
Office Code ID
Monthly Annuity $ .00 as of Benefits
Payroll

(Revised: August 1, 1977)

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

NW 88326
DocId:32244096 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# PAYROLL AUTHORIZATION FORM
(Please Use Typewriter or Ballpoint Pen) U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Washington, D.C. 20515 (Any erasures, corrections, or changes on this form must be initialed by the authorizing official.)

To the Clerk of the House of Representatives:

I hereby authorize the following payroll action:

| Employee Name (First-Middle-Last) | Effective Date |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Elizabeth K. Selleck              | 7/11/77        |

| Employee Social Security Number | Type of Action |
| ------------------------------- | -------------- |
| 531 50 7701                     | Appointment    |

Employing Office or Committee

Assassinations

Salary Adjustment

Termination (At close of business on effective date)

(If type of action is an Appointment or Salary Adjustment, complete the following information.)

| Position Title     | Gross Annual Salary |
| ------------------ | ------------------- |
| Staff Investigator | $16,000             |

(If Committee Employee, complete appropriate item below.)

1. Standing Committee: Staff Clerical or Professional.

2. Special or Select Committee: Authority-H. Res. 465 of 93th Congress.

3. Joint Committee.

(If Employee of an Officer of the House, complete item below.)

Position Number__________If applicable, Level_____ Step________

I certify that this authorization is not in violation of 5 U.S.C. 3110(b), prohibiting the employment of relatives.

Date July 11 1977

Louin Stokes

Chairman

All appointments and salary adjustments for employees under the House Classification Act and for Committee employees, except those of the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Joint Committees, must be-approved by the Committee on House Administration.

APPROVED:

Chairman, Committee on House Administration

Office of Finance use only:

Office Code

Monthly Annuity $_________.00

Copy for Initiating Office or Committee

![signature]
NW 88326
DocId:32244096 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# MEMORANDUM

TO: ALL STAFF

RE: Payroll Certification

The Regulations and Accounting Procedures for Allowances and Expenses of Committees, Members and Employees of the U.S. House of Representatives require that, among other things, the Committee's monthly payroll certification include the relationship, if any, of each employee to any current Member of Congress. This certification is signed monthly by our Chairman.

The following are the relationships to be included in the certification:

father
nephew
brother-in-law
mother
niece
sister-in-law
son
husband
stepfather
daughter
wife
stepmother
brother
father-in-law
stepbrother
sister
mother-in-law
stepsister
uncle
son-in-law
half-brother
aunt
daughter-in-law
half-sister
first cousin

Please complete the appropriate portion below, sign and date this form, which will then become a part of your permanent personnel file. If this status changes, you must notify the Committee's Budget Office immediately of the change.

I am not related to any current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.

I am related to a current (95th Congress) Member of Congress.
(Please specify.)

![Signature of Employee]

![Date]

NW 88326
DocId:32244096 Page 10


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)