# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.

CIA files on these persons were requested and reviewed by HSCA

staff members

Their contact with the defector to the Agency. One file reg. a former military person who *rejected* a report of a debriefing conducted by mil. intell. (army) of the remaining Hindus, was

Of the remaining indies who wear directly contact upon this set to the U.S., the

Weister:

The circumstances of the Agency's contact w/the 4 remaining indies. were diff. - in each case. One of the defectors was [unwittingly] interviewed by a CIA officer in the An. Ent. in [Lopehage] upon his departure from the S.U. en route to the U.S. While L's file indicates that the Agency considered a full & controlled debriefing by the CIA & FBI be conducted & Angleton wrote to the FBI suggesting a joint debriefing, there is no evidence in L's 201 file nor any ACD docs. which suggest further contact on the part of the CIA.

One of the individuals who had allegedly been living in the USSR since 1933 & returned to the U.S. in 1962; He was interviewed by that CIA after he applied ende often.

He was debriefed by a CIA officer [using DOD cover] after applying for employment in response to a newspaper advertisement. (Rev. of arson file.)

Avert debriefings were conducted of the other two defs. Rbt. E. Webster, Herkightly expert with a plastics who defected. Copies in 1959 were highly publicized, was in

More extensive debriefings were conducted of the other 2 defs. Rbt. E. Webster, a plastics expert with the Rand Corp. whose defection to the S.U. in 1959 was highly publicized. Shortly thereafter, composing w/in the Agency conducted a good debriefing of Webster in his home territory. Webster has been employed in the S.U. at the Leningrad Scientific Sutit. of Polytechnic Plastics


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Donald Deneslya
(this fact was corroborated by the CIA employers in FDD in the
Sor. branch of the Directorate of Intelligence in 1962 told the HSCA that he specifically
recalled meeting intelligence info regarding the Pinsk Radio Plant. In fact, Deneslya
recalled that, during the summer of 1962, he reviewed a contact report from
CIA's N.Y. field office, who interviewed a former Marine
interviews
who had then worked at the Pinsk Radio Plant following his defection to the USSR.
This person who Deneslya believes may have seen Oswald then living w/his family
in Minsk. Deneslya advised the Committee that the contact report was filled in a
volume concerning the Pinsk Radio Plant which should be retrievable from the Industrial
Registry Branch which, in 1962, was a component of the DLC.

The HSCA
both the
made a request
the
accused contact report & the mt. of materials concerning the Pinsk Radio Plant. Letter)

The CIA requested that the CIA provide the Committee with the
looking in the MRP did an contact report situated in that
file (coce). The file review did indicate that in 1975, David Slawson had made
such report
the CIA that no persisted
a similar request for Denesslye & was informed by
the Agency was not able to locate
Of the 29 persons requested, the person did not possess a file for one indus..
The file review did not indicate that they ever met.

'The HSCA reviewed
the files of 6 other indus. 29
Those above-described criteria & were provided
files on 22 of the 19 or 28 indus... on whon they maintained records. Not 201 files
were reviewed as "Ded" files per se regarding those indus. In the case of indus..
there is no indication in their files that they ever returned to the U.S. Even so, there were
occasional reports from sources who observed or spoke w/ these persons while in the 5.ll.,
but there is no indication of direct contact of them by the CIA.
there is no record of direct CIA contact
In regard to the other 22 defectors, the file review indicates that
w/18 of them. Again, some of these files contain a report from a source who reported


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

It becomes clear from the review of files on these defs. that debriefing of defectors was in fact somewhat of a random occurrence. However, the instances were instances in which the agency did choose to debrief returning an defector, they appeared interested in various topics of general interest regarding life in certain areas of the Soviet Union.

> Where are you.

The persons who were debriefed were similar to the idea that they defected and resided within the same general time periods and each spent their time in the S.U. in areas of interest to the CIA.

More extensive debriefings were conducted of the other 2 defectors: R.R.W., a plastics expert with R.A.C. whose defection to the S.U. in 1959 was highly publicized in relation to the U.S. in 6/63. W had been employed in the S.U. at the Kherson Scientific Institute of Polytech Plastics. Shortly after his return, H was debriefed in his home territory during tours from 00/8, 5R/6 and the A.F. It was decided that a more extensive debriefing was in order.

W was subsequently brought to the Washington when he was debriefed for a period of 2 weeks.

The debrief reports included a chron. of W's life and the CIA's assessment of him as well as a large body of info. regarding life in the S.U., W's work there and sizing up info. on persons he had met during his residence.

Ref. 7/59
Ret. 6/28/63

Likewise, Nikos Ricciarelli who had dwelled in the S.U. for nearly 4 yrs., was contacted for purposes of debriefing shortly after his return to the U.S. in late June of 1963. His initial debriefing included such subjects as his motivation to defect to USSR as well as activities engaged in during Moscow stay, relocation from Moscow to Kiev and general aspects of life such as residence criteria & costs. The agency felt that they would be interested in eliciting more info. regarding life issues in the S.U. such topics as cost of living, medical care, consumer goods, highways, transport., & restrictions within Riga.

While the CIA felt it was unfeasible to debrief R more thoroughly due to his current status of trying to regain U.S. cit., the agency felt.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

1622-1125-B: Indefeards

#1623-1125-C Dated 30 Oct. 1975

Riellesses letters intercepted

States that copies of intercepted letters were passed to FBI in course of normal exchange of intelligence. substance doesn't relate to JFL assass. "The words examined to date do not disclose whether or not this information was made avail. to the N.C. by the FBI or CIA.

Vol. 5 608-256-C

Copies of letters were forwarded to CIA by letter dated 17 March 1964 from I. Lee Rankin, I.C. of N.L. & R. Helms, DDP

Latro - questions

Geil Backgd.

Ath. file on LHO - items

Index cards

HSCA question

Agency response


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

#1

I. CIA statements to N.C. (#988-927-BD, #1038-405-B

II. CIA statements to Frensteeld (#3964, 962, 969. 970)
CIA statements to HSCA; NCH;

III. T.B.C. memo & interviews (#435.173.A)

II. Defectors
M.K.
S.O.P.-ACO (#1004-400)

I G. R.B. request

VI S &A DEM Su #1188-1000 p.3

618-673

609-786

610-263

1188-1000

1004-400

1187-

Hock-Rock. Comm.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)