JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 10/1/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10117-10245
RECORD SERIES : NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 004062

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:
DATE: 11/25/1977
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS: BOLDEN, ABRAHAM
USSS; STAFF
FOSTER, WILLIAM
DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/14/1993
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: HSCA outside contact report. Box 86.



> Released under the John F. Kennedy
> Assassination Records Collection Act of
> 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
> 88326 Date: 2025

v9.1
NW 88326 Docld:32267020 Page 1
1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

KENNEDY

004062

DATE 11/25/77 TIME

I. Identifying Information:

Name Mr. William Foster Telephone

Address Federal Probation Office, Northern District, Ill.

Type of Contact: X Telephone
Person

II. Summary of Contact:

In re: Former SS Agent Abraham Bolden DOB 1/19/35; Social Security No. 330-28-2266. A trace of Abraham Bolden's prison record was developed from a newspaper article found in the LBJ Library which mentioned initial incarceration in Springfield, Mo. Mr. Bolden was transferred from Springfield to Maxwell Field Federal Prison Camp (Montgomery, Alabama) and was placed on parole in September of 1959. Maxwell retained no records except for an indication that at some time Bolden stated that he had had "a residence in Chicago." This lead suggested that an inquiry be made to the Federal Probation service for the Chicago area.

Coincidentally, Mr. Foster was the probation officer who personally supervised Mr. Bolden while Bolden was on probation. (cont.)

III. Recommended Follow-up (if any):

NW 88326 Docld:32267020 Page 2 Belford N. Lawson III Form #5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

-2-

Foster remarked that the Bolden case was unique in his experience because of the nondisclosure by authorities of information that is automatically released to the probation officer in a given case.

Specifically, in every other case which Mr. Foster has processed, the prosecutor gave the probation officer a "version," i.e., a recital of fact about the crime and the circumstances surrounding it. Only in cases where an undercover informant is under parole supervision is the name of the informant withheld, but even then a version is always presented despite the witholding of the name. In Bolden's case, the prosecutor gave the probation officer only the indictment. Bolden's prosecutor was named Richard T. Sykes.

Mr. Foster's statement about Mr. Bolden's record while under parole supervision was that Mr. Bolden violated parole by talking to the media in order to convey his information that the Secret Service knew about the assassination three or four weeks before Dallas. However, for reasons which were not disclosed either to Mr. Foster or on the record Mr. Bolden's parole status was not revoked. Foster recounted that his records show that Bolden's statement was published in the April 12, 1970 Chicago Sun-Times.

Mr. Foster also set forth certain materials about Mr. Bolden's prosecution and conviction, supplying enough detail to make clear that at least one of the witnesses upon whose testimony the conviction was based subsequently recanted his testimony. The recantation, however, did not enable Bolden


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

-3-

to overturn his conviction.

Mr. Foster then provided the following information about Mr. Bolden and the name and addresses of Bolden's relatives. The validity of the information is not confirmed for the period after 1972.

past employer of Mr. Bolden:
National Lead Company
1800 S. Peoria Street
Chicago, Illinois

address for Bolden:
7632 S. Sangomon
Chicago, Illinois
Phone: 488-4822

residents at that address:
Barbara Bolden (wife)
Alvia Bolden (daughter)
Abraham Bolden, Jr. (son)
Darren Bolden (son)

Father's address:
Daniel Bolden, Sr.
431 Pfeiffer Road
East St. Louis, Illinois

Mother's address:
Ophelia Bolden
325 Ν. 26th Street
East St. Louis, Illinois

brother:
Daniel Bolden, Jr..
2128 Kimball Avenue
North Chicago (or Chicago) IL.

brother:
Benjamin Bolden
(resides with father)

sister:
Cecelia Griffin
92 Sangomon Street
Chicago, Illinois

NW 88326 Docld:32267020 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

-4-

sister:

Eara Dixon
3317 Bond Street
East St. Louis, Illinois

sister:

Faye Bolden
(resides with mother)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)