JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 10/1/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10071-10459

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 010088

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: MORIARTY, JOHN
TO: FENTON, CLIFFORD
TITLE:

DATE: 07/20/1978
PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: BERTUCCI, MARY C.

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified
RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Box 186.

> [Figure: Text box] Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 88326 Date: 2025

v9.1
NW 88326 Docld:32244901 Page 1
1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MEMORANDUM

TO:
Clifford Fenton
Chief Investigator-JFK

FROM:
John Moriarty
Staff Investigator-JFK

DATE:
July 20, 1978

RE:
Mary Ceciliadell Bertucci

010088

This lady placed a call to our Committee at 2:30 p.m. on July 18, 1978, seeking Mr. Bill Brown, and spoke to me when advised the former would no longer be available.

She advised she and her husband had been interviewed on past occasions by Brown and it was imperative these reports be modified regarding "the reward." Previously she had indicated she wasn't concerned with the one hundred thousand dollars, but she's since reconsidered and has decided to accept this recompense.

I checked the files and reviewed 5117 (2/7/78), 7196 (4/14/78), and 7255 (4/18/78) submitted by Bill Brown and found she reiterated the essential story. Today's notes added the following data:

1.  Maiden name Tinner; DOB, 9/28/43; SS #439-60-9743.

2.  John Fitzgerald Kennedy was her first cousin. (It was due to circumstances that they never met.)

3.  Judge Garrison is her attorney of record.

4.  She's currently confined to "Parker 3 West" of De Paul Hospital in New Orleans, with 1l of the 15 days' confinement to go.

None of these four items verified at this time.

am


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)