Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 08/18/98
Page : 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10005-10140
RECORDS SERIES : DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 1110-1117

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : STATEMENT OF PERSONAL HISTORY
DATE : 10/05/66
PAGES : 8
SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 DocId:34530159 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# ARMED FORCES SECURITY QUESTIONNAIRE

## I.-EXPLANATION

1.  The interests of National Security require that all persons being considered for membership or retention in the Armed Forces be reliable, trustworthy, of good character, and of complete and unswerving loyalty to the United States. Accordingly, it is necessary for you to furnish information concerning your security qualifications. The answers which you give will be used in determining whether you are eligible for membership in the Armed Forces, in selection of your duty assignment, and for such other action as may be appropriate.
2.  You are advised that in accordance with the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States you cannot be compelled to furnish any statements which you may reasonably believe may lead to your prosecution for a crime. This is the only reason for which you may avail yourself of the privilege afforded by the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer questions under Part IV below. Claiming the Fifth Amendment will not by itself constitute sufficient grounds to exempt you from military service for reasons of security. You are not required to answer any questions in this questionnaire, the answer to which might be incriminating. If you do claim the privilege granted by the Fifth Amendment in refusing to answer any question, you should make a statement to that effect after the question involved.

## II.-ORGANIZATIONS OF SECURITY SIGNIFICANCE

1.  There is set forth below a list of names of organizations, groups, and movements, reported by the Attorney General of the United States as having significance in connection with the National Security. Please examine the list carefully, and note those organizations, and organizations of similar names, with which you are familiar. Then answer the questions set forth in Part IV below.
2.  Your statement concerning membership or other association with one or more of the organizations named may not, of itself, cause you to be ineligible for acceptance or retention in the Armed Forces. Your age at the time of such association, circumstances prompting it, and the extent and frequency of involvement, are all highly pertinent, and will be fully weighed. Set forth all such factors under "Remarks" below, and continue on separate attached sheets of paper if necessary.
3.  If there is any doubt in your mind as to whether your name has been linked with one of the organizations named, or as to whether a particular association is "worth mentioning," make a full explanation under "Remarks."

Organizations designated by the Attorney General, pursuant to Executive Order 10450, are listed below:

Communist Party. U. S. A., its subdivisions, sub- American Slav Congress.

sidiaries and affiliates. American Women for Peace.

Communist Political Association, its subdivisions, American Youth Congress.

subsidiaries and affiliates, including- American Youth for Democracy.

Alabama People's Educational Association. Armenian Progressive League of America.

Florida Press and Educational League. Associated Klans of America.

Oklahoma League for Political Education. Association of Georgia Klans.

People's Educational and Press Association of Texas. Association of German Nationals (*Reichsdeutsche Vereinigung*).
Virginia League for People's Education.

Young Communist League. Ausland-Organization der NSDAP, Overseas Branch of Nazi Party.
Abraham Lincoln Brigade.

Abraham Lincoln School, Chicago, Illinois. Baltimore Forum.

Action Committee to Free Spain Now. Benjamin Davis Freedom Committee.

American Association for Reconstruction in Yugo- Black Dragon Society.
slavia, Inc. Boston School for Marxist Studies, Boston, Massachusetts.
American Branch of the Federation of Greek Maritime Unions. Bridges-Robertson-Schmidt Defense Committee.
American Christian Nationalist Party. Bulgarian American People's League of the United States of America.
American Committee for European Workers' Relief.

American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born. California Emergency Defense Committee.
American Committee for the Settlement of Jews in California Labor School, Inc., 321 Divisadero Street, San Francisco, California.
Birobidjan, Inc.

American Committee for Spanish Freedom. Carpatho-Russian People's Society.

American Committee for Yugoslav Relief, Inc. Central Council of American Women of Croatian Descent (also known as Central Council of American Croatian Women, National Council of Croatian Women)
American Committee to Survey Labor Conditions in Europe.
American Council for a Democratic Greece, formerly Central Japanese Association (*Beikoku Chuo Nippon jin Kai*).
known as the Greek American Council; Greek American Committee for National Unity. Central Japanese Association of Southern California.
American Council on Soviet Relations. Central Organization of the German-American National Alliance (*Deutsche-Amerikanische Einbeits front*).
American Croatian Congress.
American Jewish Labor Council. Cervantes Fraternal Society.
American League Against War and Fascism. China Welfare Appeal, Inc.
American League for Peace and Democracy. Chopin Cultural Center.
American National Labor Party. Citizens Committee to Free Earl Browder.
American National Socialist League. Citizens Committee for Harry Bridges.
American National Socialist Party. Citizens Committee of the Upper West Side (*New York City*).
American Nationalist Party. Citizens Emergency Defense Conference.
American Patriots, Inc. Citizens Protective League.
American Peace Crusade. Civil Liberties Sponsoring Committee of Pittsburgh.
American Peace Mobilization. Civil Rights Congress and its affiliated organizations, including Civil Rights Congress for Texas.
American Poles for Peace. Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights Congress of New York.
American Polish Labor Council.
American Polish League. Columbians.
American Rescue Ship Mission (a project of the Comite Coordinador Pro Republica Espanola.
United American Spanish Aid Committee). Comite Pro Derechos Civiles.
American-Russian Fraternal Society. Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland.
American-Russian Institute, New York (also known Committee to Aid the Fighting South.
as the American Russian-Institute for Cultural Relations with the Soviet Union). Committee to Defend the Rights and Freedom of Pittsburgh's Political Prisoners.
American Russian Institute, Philadelphia.
American Russian Institute of San Francisco. Committee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy.
American Russian Institute of Southern California, Committee for. Constitutional and Political Freedom.
Los Angeles. Committee for the Defense of the Pittsburgh Six.
Committee for Nationalist Action.
Committee for the Negro in the Arts.
Committee for Peace and Brotherhood Festival in Philadelphia.
Committee for the Protection of the Bill of Rights.
Committee for World Youth Friendship and Cultural Exchange.
Committee to Defend Marie Richardson.
Committee to Uphold the Bill of Rights.
Commonwealth College, Mena, Arkansas.
Congress Against Discrimination.
Congress of the Unemployed.
Connecticut Committee to Aid Victims of the Smith Act.
Connecticut State Youth Conference.
Congress of American Revolutionary Writers.
Congress of American Women.
Council on African Affairs.
Council of Greek Americans.
Council for Jobs, Relief, and Housing.
Council for Pan-American Democracy.
Croatian Benevolent Fraternity.
Dai Nippon Butoku Kai (*Military Virtue Society of Japan or Military Art Society of Japan*).
Daily Worker Press Club.
Daniels Defense Committee.
Dante Alighieri Society of Betueen 1935 and 1940).
Dennis Defense Committee.
Detroit Youth Assembly.
East Bay Peace Committee.
Elsinore Progressive League.
Emergency Conference to Save Spanish Refugees (*founding body of the North American Spanish Aid Committee*).
Everybody's Committee to Outlaw War.
Families of the Baltimore Smith Act Victims.
Families of the Smith Act Victims.
Federation of Italian. War Veterans in the U. S. A., Inc. (*Associazione Nazionale Combattenti Italiani, Federazione degli Stati Uniti d' America*).
Finnish-American Mutual Aid Society.
Florida Press and Educational League.
Frederick Douglass Educational Center.
Freedom Stage, Inc.
Friends of the New Germany (*Freunde des Neuen Deutschlands*).
Friends of the Soviet Union.
Garibaldi American Fraternal Society.
George Washington Carver School. New York City.
German American Bund / Amerikadeutscher Volks-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

German American Republican League.
German American Vocational League (*Deutsche
Amerikanische Berufsgemeinschaft*)
Guardian Club.

Harlem Trade Union Council.
Hawai Civil Liberties Committee.
Heimuska Kai, also known as Nokubei Heieki,
Gimusha Kai, Zaibei Nihonjin, Heivaku Gimu-
sha Kai and Zaibei Heimusha Kai (*Japanese Re-
siding in America Military Conscripts Association*).
Hellenic American Brotherhood.
Hinode Kai (*Imperial Japanese Reservists*)
Hinomaru Kai (*Rising Sun Flag Society—a group
of Japanese War Veterans*)
Hokubei Zaigo Shoke Dan (*North American Reserve
Officers Association*)
Hollywood Writers Mobilization for Defense.
Hungarian American Council for Democracy.
Hungarian Brotherhood.

Idaho Pension Union.
Independent Party (*Seattle, Washington*).
Independent People's Party.
Industrial Workers of the World.
International Labor Defense.
International Workers Order, its subdivisions, sub-
sidiaries and affiliates.

Japanese Association of America.
Japanese Overseas Central Society (*Kaigai Doho
Chuo Kai*)
Japanese Overseas Convention, Tokyo, Japan, 1940.
Japanese Protective Association (*Recruiting Organ-
ization*)
Jefferson School of Social Science, New York City.
Jewish Culture Society.
Jewish People's Committee.
Jewish People's Fraternal Order.
Jikyoku Lin Kai (*The Committee for the Crisis*).
Johnson-Forest Group.
Johnsonites.
Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee.
Joint Council of Progressive Italian-Americans, Inc.
Joseph Weydemeyer School of Social Science, St.
Louis, Missouri.

Kibei Seinen Kai (*Association of U. S. citizens of
Japanese ancestry who have returned to America after
studying in Japan*)
Knights of the White Camelia.
Ku Klux Klan.
Kyfthaeuser, also known as Kyffhaeuser League
(*Kyffhaeuser Bund*). Kyffhaeuser Fellowship (*Kyff-
haeuser Kameradschaft*)
Kyffhaeuser War Relief (*Kyffhaeuser Kriegshilfsuerk*).

Labor Council for Negro Rights.
Labor Research Association, Inc.
Labor Youth League.
League for Common Sense.
League of American Writers.
Lictor Society (*Italian Black Shirts*).

Macedonian-American People's League.
Mario Morgantini Circle.
Maritime Labor Committee to Defend Al Lannon.
Maryland Congress Against Discrimination.
Massachusetts Committee for the Bill of Rights.
Massachusetts Minute Women for Peace (not con-
nected with the Minute Women of the U. S. A.,
Inc.).
Maurice Braverman Defense Committee.
Michigan Civil Rights Federation.

Michigan Council for Peace.
Michigan School of Social Science.

Nanka Teikoku Gunyudan (*Imperial Military Friends
Group or Southern California War Veterans*).
National Association of Mexican Americans (also
*knou'n* as *Asociacion Nacional Mexico-Americana*).
National Blue Star Mothers of America (not to be
confused with the Blue Star Mothers of America
organized in February 1942).
National Committee for the Defense of Political
Prisoners.
National Committee for Freedom of the Press.
National Committee to Win Amnesty for Smith
Act Victims.
National Committee to Win the Peace.
National Conference on American Policy in China
and the Far East (a Conference called by the Com-
mittee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy).
National Council of Americans of Croatian Descent.
National Council of American-Soviet Friendship.
National Federation for Constitutional Liberties.
National Labor Conference for Peace.
National Negro Congress.
National Negro Labor Council.
Nationalist Action League.
Nationalist Party of Puerto RICO.
Nature Friends of America (*Since 1935*)
Negro Labor Victory Committee.
New Committee for Publications.
Nichibei Kogyo Kaisha/ (*The Great Fuji Theatre*).
North American Committee to Aid Spanish Democracy
North American Spanish Aid Committee.
North Philadelphia Forum.
Northwest Japanese Association.

Ohio School of Social Sciences.
Oklahoma Committee to Defend Political Prisoners.
Oklahoma League for Political Education.
Original Southern Klans, Incorporated.

Pacific Northwest Labor School. Seattle, Washing-
ton.
Palo Alto Peace Club.
Partido del Pueblo of Panama (*operating in the
Canal Zone*).
Peace Information Center.
Peace Movement of Ethiopia.
People's Drama, Inc.
People's Educational and Press Association of Texas.
People's Educational Association (*Incorporated under
name Los Angeles Educational Association. Inc*),
also known as People's Educational Center, Peo-
ple's University, People's School.
People's Institute of Applied Religion.
People's Programs (*Seattle, Washington*).
People's Radio Foundation, Inc.
People's Rights Party.
Philadelphia Labor Committee for Negro Rights.
Philadelphia School of Social Science and Art.
Photo League (*New York City*).
Pittsburgh Arts Club.
Political Prisoners Welfare Committee.
Polonia Society of the IWO.
Progressive German-Americans, also known as Pro-
gressive German-Americans of Chicago.
Proletarian Party of America.
Protestant War Veterans of the United States, Inc.
Provisional Committee of Citizens for Peace, South-
west Area.
Provisional Committee on Latin American Affairs.
Provisional Committee to Abolish Discrimination
in the State of Maryland.
Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles (CLC).

ttorriquenos Unidos (*Puerto Ricans United*).

Quad City Committee for Peace.
Queensbridge Tenants League.

Revolutionary Workers League.
Romanian-American Fraternal Society.
Russian American Society, Inc.

Sakura Kai (*Patriotic Society, or Cherry Association,
composed of veterans of Russo-Japanese War*).
Samuel Adams School, Boston, Mass.
Santa Barbara Peace Forum.
Schappes Defense Committee.
Schneiderman-Darcy Defense Committee.
School of Jewish Studies, New York City.
Seattle Labor School, Seattle, Washington.
Serbian-American Fraternal Society.
Serbian Vidovdan Council.
Shinto Temples (Limited to State Shinto abolished
in 1945).
Silver Shirt Legion of America.
Slavic Council of Southern California.
Slovak Workers Society..
Slovenian-American National Council
Socialist Workers Party, including American Com-
mittee for European Workers Relief.
Sokoku Kai (*Fatherlund Society*)
Southern Negro Youth Congress.
Suiko Sha (*Reserve Officers Association, Los Angeles*).
Syracuse Women for Peace.

Tom Paine School of Social Science. Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.
Tom Paine School of Westchester, New York.
Trade Union Committee for Peace.
Trade Unionists for Peace.
Tri-State Negro Trade Union Council.

Ukranian-American Fraternal Union.
Union of American Croatians.
Union of New York Veterans.
United American Spanish Aid Committee.
United Committee of Jewish Societies and Lands-
manschaft Federations, also known as Coordina
tion Committee of Jewish Landsmanschaften and
Fraternal Organizations.
United Committee of South Slavic Americans.
United Defense Council of Southern California.
United Harlem Tenants and Consumers Organiza
tion.
United May Day Committee

United Negro and Allied Veterans of America.

Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights
Congress of New York.
Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade.
Virginia League for People's Education.
Voice of Freedom Committee

Walt Whitman School of Social Science. Newark
New Jersey
Washington Bookshop Association.
Washington Committee to Defend the Bill of Rights
Washington Committee for Democratic Action.
Washington Commonwealth Federation.
Washington Pension Union
Wisconsin Conference on Social Legislation.
Workers Alliance (*since April 1936*).

Yiddisher Kultur Farband.
Yugoslav-American Cooperative Home. Inc.
Yugoslav Seamen's Club, Inc..

### III.-INSTRUCTIONS

1. Set forth an explanation for each answer checked "Yes"
   under question 2 below under "Remarks." Attach as many
   extra sheets as necessary for a full explanation, signing or initial-
   ing each extra sheet.

2. Title 18, U. S. Code, Section 1001, provides, in pertinent
   part: "Whoever . . . falsifies, conceals or covers up . . . a ma-
   terial fact, or makes any false . . . statements . . . or makes
   or uses any false writing . . . shall be fined not more than
   $10,000 or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both." Any
   false, fraudulent or fictitious response to the questions under Part
   IV below may give rise to criminal liability under Title 18,
   U. S. C., Section 1001. You are advised, however, that you
   will not incur such liability unless you supply inaccurate state-
   ments with knowledge of their untruthfulness. You are there-
   fore advised that before you sign this form and turn it in to
   Selective Service or military authorities, you should be sure that
   it is truthful; that detailed explanations are given for each "Yes"
   answer under question 2 of Part IV below, and that details given
   are as full and complete as you can make them.

3. In stating details, it is permissible, if your memory is hazy
   on particular points, to use such expressions as, "I think," "in
   my opinion," "I believe," or "to the best of my recollection."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# IV.-QUESTIONS

(For each answer checked Yes under question 2, set forth a full explanation under "Remarks" below)

1. I have read the list of names of organizations, groups, and move- menis set forth under Part II of this form and the explanation which precedes it.

| YES | NO  |
| --- | --- |
| YES |     |

1. Have you ever contributed money to any of the organizations, groups, or movements listed?

| YES | NO  |
| --- | --- |
|     |     |

2. Concerning the list of organizations, groups and movements set forth under Part II above:

a. Are you now a member of any of the organizations, groups, or movements listed?

k Have you ever contributed services to any of the organizations, groups, or movements listed?

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
|     |     |

b. Have you ever been a member of any of the organizations, groups, or movements listed?

I Have you ever subscribed to any publication of any of the organ- izations, groups, or movements listed?

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
|     |     |

c. Are you now employed by any of the organizations, groups, or movements listed?

m. Have you ever been emploved by a foreign government or any agency thereof?

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
|     |     |

d Have you ever been employed by any of the organizations, groups, or movements listed?

n Are you now a member of the Communist Party of any foreign country?

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
|     |     |

e. Have you ever attended any meeting of any of the organizations, groups, or movements listed?

o. Have you ever been a meniber of the Communist Party of any foreign country?

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
|     |     |

f. Have you ever attended any social gathering of any of the organ- izations, groups, or movements listed?

p. Have you ever been the subject of a loyalty or security hearing?

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
|     |     |

g. Have you ever attended any gathering of any kind sponsored by any of the organizations, groups, or movements listed?

q. Are you now or have you ever been a member of any organiza- tion, association, movement, group or combination of persons not on the Attorney General's list which advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of government, or which has adopted the policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or violence to deny other persons their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or which seeks to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means?

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
|     |     |

h. Have you prepared material for publication by any of the organ- izations, groups, or movements listed?

r. Have you ever been known by any other last name than that used in signing this questionnaire?

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
|     |     |

i. Have you ever corresponded with any of the organizations, groups, or movements listed or with any publication thereof?

REMARKS

I refuse to answer these questions bercuse the violete my rights granted to me under the First, Fifth cond Fourteenth Amendments to the U.S Constitution.

REMARKS (Continued)

NW 88613 Docld:34530159 Page 4

Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

REMARKS (Continued)

Robert Scheer, born 4 April 1936 in Bronx, New York, a registrant under the Universal Military Training Act, was this date given an opportunity to execute DD Form 98 and in my presence he refused to do so.

![signature]

BYRON K. HAYASHIDA
1/LT, AGC

CERTIFICATION

In regard to any part of this questionnaire concerning which I have had any question as to the meaning. I have requested and have obtained a complete explanation. I certify that the statements made by me under Part IV above and on any supplemental pages hereto attached, are full, true, and correct.

| TYPED FULL NAME OF PERSON MAKING CERTIFICATION | SERVICE NUMBER (If any) | SIGNATURE OF PERSON MAKING CERTIFICATION |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| TYPED NAME OF WITNESS                          | DATE 4-1-3              | SIGNATURE OF WITNESS                     |


US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1961 0-607912

For Official Use Only

NW 88613 DocId:34530159 Page 5 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# STATEMENT

INSTRUCTIONS: Read the certification at the end of this questionnaire before entering the required data. Print or type all answers. All questions and statements must be completed. If the answer is "None," so state. Do not misstate or omit material fact since the statements made herein are subject to verification. If more space is needed, use the Remarks section, item 20, and attach additional sheets if necessary. The information entered hereon is for official use only and will be maintained in confidence.

1. (Print) FIRST NAME-MIDDLE NAME--MAIDEN NAME (If any)-LAST NAME

*   MR.
*   MRS.
*   MISS

ROBERT (NMN) SCHEER

2. STATUS

*   CIVILIAN
*   MILITARY ON ACTIVE DUTY

3.  ALIAS(ES). NICKNAME(S). OR CHANGES IN NAME (Other than by marriage)

None

4. PERMANENT MAILING ADDRESS

2828 Milvia St., Berkeley, California

5. DATE OF BIRTH (Day, month, year)

4 April 1936

PLACE OF BIRTH (City, County, State, and Country)

Bronx, New York, New York, USA

PLACE CERTIFICATE RECORDED

Bronx, New York

RACE

Cauc

HEIGHT

70"

WEIGHT

180

COLOR OF EYES

Brown

COLOR OF HAIR

Brown

SCARS, PHYSICAL DEFECTS, DISTINGUISHING MARKS

None

6. DO YOU HAVE A HISTORY OF MENTAL OR NERVOUS DISORDERS? ☐ YES XX NO ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ADDICTED TO THE USE OF HABIT FORMING DRUGS SUCH AS NARCOTICS OR BARBITURATES? ☐ YES ☐ NO ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A CHRONIC USER TO EXCESS OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES? ☐ YES XX NO IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES." EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20.

7. U. S. CITIZEN

*   YES
*   NO

NATIVE

IF NATURALIZED, CERTIFICATE NO.

IF DERIVED. PARENTS CERTIFICATE NO(S).

DATE, PLACE, AND COURT

ALIEN

REGISTRATION NO

NATIVE COUNTRY

DATE AND PORT OF ENTRY

DO YOU INTEND TO BECOME A U. S. CITIZEN?

*   YES
*   NO

8. MILITARY SERVICE

ARE YOU PRESENTLY ON ACTIVE DUTY IN THE U. S. ARMED FORCES DRAWING FULL PAY? ☐ YES ☐ NO IF "YES," COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

GRADE AND SERVICE NO.

SERVICE AND COMPONENT

ORGANIZATION AND STATION

DATE CURRENT ACTIVE SERVICE STARTED

ARE YOU PRESENTLY A MEMBER OF A U. S. RESERVE OR NATIONAL GUARD ORGANIZATION? ☐ YES ☑ NO IF YES. COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

GRADE AND SERVICE NO.

SERVICE AND COMPONENT

ORGANIZATION AND STATION OR UNIT AND LOCATION

HAVE YOU PREVIOUSLY SERVED TOURS OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY, DRAWING FULL PAY, FROM WHICH YOU WERE DISCHARGED OR SEPARATED TO CIVILIAN STATUS? ☐ YES ☑ NO IF "YES." COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

| COUNTRY | SERVICE | COMPONENT         | FROM (Date) | TO (Date) | TYPE DISCHARGES OR SEPARATIONS-GRADE AND SERVICE NO. |
| ------- | ------- | ----------------- | ----------- | --------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
|         |         | ЗАКОИ К HUAWEHIDU |             |           |                                                      |

9. EDUCATION (Account for all civilian schools and military academies. Do not include service schools)

| MONTH AND YEAR  | NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL                  | GRADUATE | DEGREE   |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------------- | -------- | -------- |
|                 |                                              | YES      | NO       |
| Sep 49 - Jun 53 | Christopher Columbus High School, Bronx, NTY | X        | Academic |
| Sep 53 - Jun 55 | Queens College, Queens, New York             |          | X        |
| Sep 55 - Jun 58 | The City College of New York, New York, N.Y. | X        | B.A.     |
| Sep 59 - Jun 59 | Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York      |          | X        |
| Sep 60 - Jun 61 | University of Calif., Berkeley               |          |          |

10. FAMILY (List in order: parents, spouse, guardians, stepparents, foster parents, parents-in-law, former spouse(s) (if divorced give date and place), children, brothers and sisters, even though deceased. Include any others you resided with or with whom a close relationship existed or exists. If the person is not a U. S. citizen by birth, give date and port of entry, alien registration number, naturalization certificate number and place of issuance.)

| RELATION AND NAME    | DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH | PRESENT ADDRESS, IF LIVING | U. S. CITIZEN |     |
| -------------------- | ----------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------- | --- |
|                      |                         |                            | YES           | NO  |
| FATHER               | 25 May 1898             | Deceased                   | X             |     |
| Fred Scheer          | Germany                 |                            |               |     |
| MOTHER (Maiden name) | 24 Apr 1900             | 2860 Bronx Park East       |               | X   |
| Ida Kuran            |                         | Bronx, New York            |               |     |
| SPOUSE (Maiden name) | Feb 1942                | 2828 Milvia Street         | X             |     |
| Anne Weills          | Eureka, Calif.          | Berkeley, Calif.           |               |     |
| OTHER (Specify)      |                         |                            |               |     |
| None                 |                         |                            |               |     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# 12. FOREIGN TRAVEL (Other than as a direct result of United States military duties)

| DATES    | COUNTRY VISITED                       | PURPOSE OF TRAVEL |
| -------- | ------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| FROM-    | TO-                                   |                   |
| Aug 1960 | Sep 1960 Cuba                         | To learn to write |
| Jan 63   | Mar 1963 England, France, Poland,     | Write             |
|          | Hungary, Soviet Union & Czechoslavkia |                   |
| Feb 1965 | Mar 1965 Vietnam, Combodia, Indonesia | Write             |

# 13. EMPLOYMENT (Show every employment you have had and all periods of unemployment)

| MONTH AND YEAR | NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER | NAME OF IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR | REASON FOR LEAVING |
| -------------- | ---------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------ |
| FROM-          | TO-                          |                              |                    |
| Soring         | Jan 1953 S. Kleins           | Unknown                      | Christmas over     |
| 1952           | 14th St., New York, New York |                              |                    |
| 1956           | 1957 U. S. Post Office       | Unknown                      | School             |
|                | New York City, New York      |                              |                    |
| Sep 58         | Jun 59 Syracuse University   | Unknown                      |                    |
|                | Syracuse, New York           |                              |                    |
| Sep 60         | Jun 61 University of Calif.  | Unknown                      |                    |
|                | Berkeley, Calif.             |                              |                    |
| Sep 61         | Dec 63 City Lights Bookstore | Mr.L.Ferlinghetti            |                    |
|                | 261 Columbus, S.F., Calif.   |                              |                    |
| Jun 65         | Present Rampert's Magazine   | W. Hinckle                   |                    |
|                | 301 Broadway, S.F., Calif.   |                              |                    |





DID ANY OF THE ABOVE EMPLOYMENTS REQUIRE A SECURITY CLEARANCE? YES **NO** DO YOU HAVE ANY FOREIGN PROPERTY OR BUSINESS CONNECTIONS, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN EMPLOYED BY A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT, FIRM, OR AGENCY? YES **NO** HAVE YOU EVER BEEN REFUSED BOND? YES **NO** IF THE ANSWER TO ANY OF THE ABOVE IS "YES," EXPLAIN IN ITEM 20.

SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

112-28-1134

# 14. CREDIT AND CHARACTER REFERENCES (Do not include relatives, former employers, or persons living outside the United States or its Territories.

| CREDIT    | NAME            | YEARS KNOWN | STREET AND NUMBER (Business address preferred) | CITY          | STATE OR TERRITORY |
| --------- | --------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------- | ------------------ |
|           | None            |             |                                                |               |                    |
| CHARACTER | Robert Avekian  | 2           | Unknown                                        | Berkeley      | Calif.             |
|           | David Welsh     | 1           | 301 Broadway                                   | San Francisco | Calif.             |
|           | Sol Stern       | 10          | 301 Broadway                                   | San Francisco | Calif.             |
|           | Robert Truehaft | 2           | Trushaft & Walker                              | Oakland       | Calif.             |
|           | Malcolm         | 2           | Trushaft & Walker                              | Oakland       | Calif.             |
|           | Bernstein       |             |                                                |               |                    |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

19. ARE THERE ANY INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED HEREIN WHICH MAY REFLECT UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES OR UPON YOUR SUITABILITY TO PERFORM THE DUTIES WHICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE/FURTHER EXPLANATION?

See Remarks

20. REMARKS

ITEM (#12) FOREIGN TRAVEL (Continued)

Feb 1966 to Mar 1966 - Vietnam, Combodia, Thailand and Japan - Write X

I refuse to answer questions 16, 17, and 19 on the grounds that they violate my constitutional rights under the 1st, 5th & 14th Amendments to the United States Constitution.

Robert Scheer, sa registäent under the Military Training and Service Act, refused to complete DD Form 398 in its entirety.

MYRON K. HAYASHIDA
1/LT, AGC

I CERTIFY THAT THE ENTRIES MADE BY ME ABOVE ARE TRUE, COMPLETE, AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF AND ARE MADE IN GOOD FAITH. I UNDERSTAND THAT A KNOWING AND WILLFUL FALSE STATEMENT ON THIS FORM CAN BE PUNISHED BY FINE OR IMPRISONMENT OR BOTH (See U. S. Code, title 18, section 1001)

DATE

5 Oct 1966

TYPED NAME AND ADDRESS OF WITNESS

MYRON K. HAYASHIDA, 1/LT, AGC
1515 Clay St., Oakland, California

SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

21. THIS SECTION TO BE COMPLETED BY AUTHORITY REQUESTING INVESTIGATION

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND DEGREE OF CLASSIFIED MATTER (top secret, secret, etc.) TO WHICH APPLICANT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS

RECORD OF PRIOR CLEARANCES:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

15. LIST ALL RESIDENCES FROM JANUARY 1937

| MONTH AND YEAR | STREET AND NUMBER | CITY                                  | STATE OR COUNTRY |            |
| -------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ---------- |
| FROM           | TO                |                                       |                  |            |
| 1949           | 1958              | 653 Brittoh Street, Bronx             | New York         | New York   |
| 1958           | 1959              | Spracuse N.Y. Married Student Housing | Syracuse         | New York   |
| 1959           | 1961              | Francisco Street                      | Berkeley         | California |
| 1961           | 1963              | 2157 Mason Street                     | San Francisco    | California |
| 1963           | 1963              | 444 Columbus Street                   | San Francisco    | California |
| 1964           | 1965              | 332 Castro St. & 2870 Geary           | San Francisco    | California |
| 1965           | Present           | 2828 Milvia Street                    | Berkeley         | California |
|                |                   |                                       |                  |            |
|                |                   |                                       |                  |            |
|                |                   |                                       |                  |            |

16. PAST AND/OR PRESENT MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS

| NAME AND ADDRESS | TYPE (Social, fraternal, professional, etc.) | OFFICE HELD | MEMBERSHIP |     |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------- | ----------- | ---------- | :-: |
|                  |                                              |             | FROM-      | TO- |
| See Remarks      |                                              |             |            |     |
|                  |                                              |             |            |     |
|                  |                                              |             |            |     |

17. 
YES NO

ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY U. S. A.. OR ANY COMMUNIST ORGANIZATIONS ANYWHERE?

ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF A FASCIST ORGANIZATION?

ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF ANY ORGANIZATION, ASSOCIATION, MOVEMENT, GROUP OR COMBINATION OF PERSONS WHICH ADVOCATES THE
OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT, OR WHICH HAS ADOPTED THE POLICY OF ADVOCATING OR APPROVING THE COMMISSION OF ACTS OF FORCE
OR VIOLENCE TO DENY OTHER PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES, OR WHICH SEEKS TO ALTER THE FORM OF GOVERNMENT OF
THE UNITED STATES BY UNCONSTITUTIONAL MEANS?

ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN AFFILIATED OR ASSOCIATED WITH ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE AS AN AGENT. OFFICIAL, OR EMPLOYEE?

ARE YOU NOW ASSOCIATING WITH, OR HAVE YOU ASSOCIATED WITH ANY INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING RELATIVES, WHO YOU KNOW OR HAVE REASON TO BELIEVE, ARE OR
HAVE BEEN MEMBERS OF ANY OF THE ORGANIZATIONS IDENTIFIED ABOVE?

HAVE YOU EVER ENGAGED IN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES OF ANY ORGANIZATION OF THE TYPE DESCRIBED ABOVE: CONTRIBUTION(S) TO, ATTENDANCE AT OR
PARTICIPATION IN ANY ORGANIZATIONAL, SOCIAL, OR OTHER ACTIVITIES OF SAID ORGANIZATIONS OR OF ANY PROJECTS SPONSORED BY THEM: THE SALE, GIFT, OR DIS-
TRIBUTION OF ANY WRITTEN PRINTED O OR OTHER MATTER, PREPARED: REPRODUCED, OR PUBLISHED, BY THEM OR ANY OF THEIR AGENTS OR INSTRUMENTALITIES?

IF"YES." DESCRIBE THE CIRCUMSTANCES. ATTACH ADDITIONAL SHEETS FOR A FULL DETAILED STATEMENT. IF ASSOCIATED WITH ANY OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS, SPECIFY NATURE
AND EXTENT OF ASSOCIATION WITH EACH, INGYUDING OFFICE OR POSITION HELD, ALSO INCLUDE DATES. PLACES, AND CREDENTIALS NOW OR FORMERLY HELD. IF ASSOCIATIONS HAVE
BEEN WITH INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE ABOVE ORGANIZATIONS. THEN LIST THE INDIVIDUALS AND THE ORGANIZATIONS WITH WHICH THEY WERE OR ARE AFFILIATED.

See Remarks

18. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DETAINED, HELD, ARRESTED. INDICTED OR SUMMONED INTO COURT AS A DEFENDANT IN A CRIMINAL PROCEEDING, OR CONVICTED, FINED, OR IMPRISONED OR
    PLACED ON PROBATION, OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ORDERED TO DEPOSIT BAIL OR COLLATERAL FOR THE VIOLATION OF ANY LAW, POLICE REGULATION OR ORDINANCE (excluding
    minor traffic violations for which a fine or forfeiture of $25, or less was imposed)? INCLUDE ALL COURT MARTIALS WHILE IN MILITARY SERVICE. YES NO
    IF "YES," LIST THE DATE, THE NATURE OF THE OFFENSE OR VIOLATION, THE NAME AND LOCATION OF THE COURT OR PLACE OF HEARING, AND THE PENALTY IMPOSED OR OTHER
    DISPOSITION OF EACH CASE.

THES RELATI.

19. ARE THERE ANY INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED HEREIN WHICH MAY REFLECT UPON YOUR LOYALTY TO THE UNITED STATES OR UPON YOUR SUITABILITY TO PERFORM
    THE DUTIES WHICH YOU MAY BE CALLED UPON TO TAKE OR WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE FURTHER EXPLANATION? YES NO IF "YES. GIVE DETAILS

See Remarks

NW 88613 Docld:34530159 Page 9


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)