Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 08/24/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10006-10186
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 645

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO : [ RESTRICTED ]
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 10/11/66
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT

CASUAL SOURCE

REPORT OF FINDINGS

RECORD CHECK

AGENT REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34530131 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

SCHEER, Robert

SSvc Registrant SSN: 112-28-1134

DOB: 4 April 1936

POB: Bronx, New York

2. DATE SUBMITTED

11 October 1966

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(CASUAL SOURCE) On 6 October 1966, a records check conducted at Casual Source A-16, Oakland, California, in regard to SUBJECT revealed the following information:

Name: Robert SCHEER

Age: 29 Years old in 1965

Occupation: Student, Teacher, and writer

Residence: 332 B Castro Street, San Francisco, California

Wife: Anne

Since 1960, HE has been active in demonstrations in the Bay Area of California. Participated in the San Francisco City Hall riots, against the execution of Caryl Chessman, sit-ins, and teach-ins.

1960 Visited Cuba and wrote favorably of Castro

1965 Member of Vietnam Day Committee

1966 Foreign news editor of Rampart Magazine

1966 Visited Cambodia

(CASUAL SOURCE) On 6 October 1966, Casual Source A-14, Oakland, California, informed that Robert SCHEER is a well-known individual in the Bay Area of California who usually supports all liberal political policies. HE has been active in free speech movements in Berkeley, California, has been a candidate for election to the US Congress, and is active in attempting to alter US policy toward Vietnam. There is no evidence that HE has ever attended a meeting of any organization that is considered subversive toward the US Government nor has HE been identified as a member of any such organization. HIS wife, Anne, is active in similar endeavors as SUBJECT.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

645

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

L LEWIS, 115th INTC Gp(I)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

Lewis

DA 341

REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88613 Docld:34530131 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)