JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date : 12/10/97
Page: 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10006-10311
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC640653W-PAGES 45-47

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED]
TO :
TITLE : AGENT REPORT
DATE: 02/05/72
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS : KAMINSKI, HANS D

[ RESTRICTED]

JOHN THE DEE JAY

LORD NELSON, WESTERN, KESSIN (BARS IN DATTELN)

MILITARY SUBJECTS

XR-71

STADTSCHAENKE BAR

C-RATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94. EXHIBITS NOT
INCLUDED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

AGENT REPORT

For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

2. DATE SUBMITTED

5 February 1972

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(On 1 February 1972, Robert M. Creed, SP4, 514-54-4745, Security

Guard, C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln (LC8424), Federal
Republic of Germany (FRG), was interviewed at his place of duty regarding
an incident of possible Counter-Intelligence interest, and stated substantially
as follows:

Source was approached by a man who identified himself as John the
Dee Jay on 31 January 1972, in the Lord Nelson, a bar in Datteln. John
the Dee Jay was the Disc Jockey at the Lord Nelson. John sat down with
Source and began a normal conversation. The conversation soon turned to
military subjects. John asked about CPT FNU Myers and CPT FNU Jackson,
who supposedly had been assigned to the unit at one time. John mentioned
that he had taken pictures of Myers and his family. John asked Source about
radar and other military subjects. John constantly mentioned Security
Sergeants, phone numbers and personnel that were formerly at the unit.
John stated that he knew the last Security Sergeant of C Team, and was
interested in knowing who was now the Security Sergeant. At 2330 hours,
Source left the Lord Nelson and proceeded to the Western Bar, Datteln.
At the Western, Source met a man, name unknown, who owned the photography
shop across the street from the Western, whom Source described as a "drinking
buddy". Source and the unidentified man (UIM) left the Western about 0100
hours and proceeded to the Lord Nelson. At the Lord Nelson, Source and UIM
were joined at their table by John the Dee Jay. Upon learning that UIM
was a Photographer, John asked him if he had ever taken pictures of a military
installation. The UIM did not answer the question, but stated that he had
taken pictures of a man named Julius (PHONETIC-NFI). Julius supposedly had
been an American stationed in Datteln with the US Army. The UIM became
nervous because of John's questioning, excused himself, and left the bar.
Source did not see UIM anymore that evening. Source and John remained
at the Lord Nelson. The conversation between Source and John returned to
military subjects. John spoke about military subjects with authority and
apparent proficiency. John said many things about military subjects that
Source had no knowledge of. Source was unable to recall any of the specifics
of the conversation. Source felt dwarfed by John's military knowledge
and at one time asked John if he knew about the XR-71. John became very
interested and asked Source what was the XR-71. Source replied that he was
not allowed to talk about it, and the subject was dropped. John mentioned
twice during the evening, that he had been kicked off Haard Kaserne, where
C Team was located in Datteln, for being caught wearing a complete set of US
fatigues in downtown Datteln. The first time John mentioned the incident
he said it occurred two years ago and on the second mentioning he said it

Page 1 of 3 Pages

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

HEINZ E. ICKERT, 66th MI Group

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

DA 341

NW 88613 Docld:34530605 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# AGENT REPORT
For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   5 February 1972

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

happened in 1966. Source did not mention the discrepancy to John. John stated that he had also veen kicked off two or three kasernes in the South, and that his name was on record. John mentioned being caught and interrogated on a site in Southern FRG. Source was unable to recall the exact identi- fication of the agency John claimed to have been interrogated by, but mentioned that it was something like MA, MD, MI, MAD, MAI. John said he had been released after the interrogation and followed, but that he had managed to lose the people who were following him. John mentioned that he had paced off Haard Kaserne and knew exactly where and how to get on to the kaserne without being detected. Source and John left the Lord Nelson at 0300 hours and went to another bar in Datteln. Source thought the name of the bar was the Kessin (PHONETIC), but was not sure. Upon arriving at the Kessin, John said that he had to pick up his pay check from the owner of the bar and left Source. John and the owner of the bar went into a private office for about five minutes before John returned. The owner of the Kessin also owned the Lord Nelson and Western. Source and John left the Kessin at 430 hours and proceeded by taxi to John's apartment, which was located above the Western. John stated that if Source did not believe everything that he had said, that Source could contact an Air Force Security Sergeant and confirm everything. John gave Source a slip of paper (EXHIBIT____), on which was the name of the Security Sergeant, his job title, station, and telephone numbers. John stated that if Source mentioned or showed the paper to anyone that it would get the Security Sergeant into trouble. John also hinted that bodily harm might result to Source if the paper got into the wrong hands. John gave Source an old US Air Force parka to wear back to the kaserne because it was cold and Source's own jacket was light weight. In the pockets of the parka were four beer coasters, (EXHIBITS____, ____, and ____), and a used streetcar ticket (EXHIBIT _ ). John arranged another meeting with Source for 1700 hours, 5 February 1972, at the Stadtschaenke Bar, Datteln. John gave a slip of paper (EXHIBIT____) to Source with the information for the next meeting. John asked Source to obtain any information on Julius mentioned by UIM, that he could. John mentioned that he had known Cristobal Pimentel-Davilla and asked Source to obtain some C-Rations for him. Source then left John and returned to his unit. Source did not believe that he had supplied any official information to John, but felt that it was possible that he might have as he was quite drunk before the evening ended. Source described John as follows: Six to six feet one inch tall, weighing 180-190 pounds, slight build, black hair with long sideburns, and wore a red shirt with a navy blue coat and tie, black shoes, long black overcoat and black fur hat.

![image]

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

HEINZ E. ICKERT, 66th MI Group

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![signature]

Page 2 of 3 Pages

DA FORM 341 REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1. JUN 47. WHICH MAY BE USED.
1 APR 52

NW 88613 Docld:34530605 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

AGENT REPORT

For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C): AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligonca.

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

2. DATE SUBMITTED

5 February 1972

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(U)
(C) REMARKS: Source explained that the XR-71 that he had mentioned to John did not, to the best of his knowledge, exist.

(U)
(C) AGENT'S NOTES: The UIM mentioned was the owner of the Althoff Photo Shop, Hohe Strasse, Datteln.

![Stamp REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 Sep 94 BY CDRC AUTH Para 1-003 DOD 5200.1R]

![Stamp EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC RE GRADING DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY]

Page 3 of 3 Pages

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

HEINZ E. ICKERT, 66th MI Group

47

![Signature]

DA FORM 341 REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88613 DocId:34530605 Page 4


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)