Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date: 01/20/98
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10004-10162
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 460

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/29/66
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : FROMER, DAVID REED

SUBJECT INTERVIEW

SECURITY FORMS

CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 DocId:34528609 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   FECMER, David Reed
   SSvc Registrant, SSN 564 58 8137
   DOB: 21 July 1942
   FOB: Chicago, Illinois

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   29 November 1966

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(SUBJECT INTERVIEW) On 21 November 1966, David Reed FROMER, Student
University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, with residence at 140 Langdon
Street, Madison, and with permanent mailing address at Khonda Way, Mill Valley,
California, was contacted at the Armed Forces Entrance and Examination Station,
1509 $lay Street, Cakland, California. It was explained to FROMER that it is
the policy of the Department of the Army to interview all persons who refuse to
fill out their DD Form 98, Fersonnel Security Questionnaire, and qualify their
Lu Form 398, Statement of Fersonal History, at the time they are called upon for
processing under the conscription laws of the United States. SUBJECT was informed
that the purpose of the interview was to give HIM the opportunity to furnish an
explanation concerning HIS reasons for refusing to fill out and qualify the
above mentioned forms and to furnish any additional information which might be
useful in making a determination of HIS case. FROMER was advised of HIS rights
under the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States and Article
31, Uniform Code of Military Justice. HE was further advised of HIS right to
legal counsel concerning the interview. FRCMER refused to be interviewed under
oath or make any statement concerning the above mentioned forms based upon HIS
rights under the First and Fifth Amendments to the Constitution of the United
States. SUBJECT only stated that HE had formerly made application for conscientious
objection, that FIS right of appeal had been denied by the United States District
Court on 13 October 1966, and that IIIS lawyers had initiated action to have the
appeal heard by a higher court. SUBJECT further indicated that HE did not wish
to make a statement because HIS personal attorney, Peter Franck, a family attorney,
Vincent Hallinan, were not available at this time to speak in HIS behalf.

AGENT'S NOTES: SUBJECT is presently enrolled at the University of
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, and will not be available for further contact in
this area. FROMER declined to sign a statement in verification of the opportunity
given El to be interviewed concerning HIS qualification of DD Form 398 and refusal
to fill out L Form 98.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   ERIC E. MCKNIGHT, 115th MI Gp (I)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![signature of Eric E. McKnight]

460

DA FORM 341 REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.
1 APR 52

NW 88613 Docld:34528609 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)