Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 01/20/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10139
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 372-373

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : HAYASHIDA, MYRON K.
TO : USA INTELLIGENCE CMD
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/25/66
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : FROMER, DAVID R.

INDUCTION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : RECORD REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94. INCLOSURES
NOT INCLUDED.

NW 886.13_DocId: 34528580. Page 1 - -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSON ACTION
(AR 381-130)

TO: (Control Office)
CG, USA Intelligence Cmd
ATTN: ACofS, CONOPS
PO Box 398
Fort Holabird, Md 21219

THRU:
CG, USAREC
ATTN: Security Officer
Hampton, Va 23369

25 November 1966

FROM: (Requesting Agency)
CO, AFEES
1515 Clay Street
Oakland, California

(Enter name and address of the ACTION AGENCY to which results are to be sent, if known by requester)

CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY

REQUIREMENT REQUEST NO.

CHIEF, USAPSG
ATTN: Adjudication Branch
Fort Holabird, Md 21219

DOSSIER NO. OPENING DATE

REMARKS

SECTION I - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and middle names)
   FROMER, David Reed

2. ALIAS(ES),
   None

3. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
   564-58-8137

4. DATE OF BIRTH (Day, Month, Year)
   21 July 1942

5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State and country)
   Chicago, Illinois

6. GRADE AND POSITION
   N/A

7. REQUESTED ACTION
   ☑ INVESTIGATION

VALIDATION

RECORDS CHECK

8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION:
   NAC NACI BI ☐ OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

9. a. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:
   TOP SECRET SECRET CONFIDENTIAL

10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR:
    INDUCTION

b. FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION

11. JUSTIFICATION
    PAR 18, AR 604-10

c. INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED

d. XXOTHER (Explain in Item 15)

12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON
    NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION

REVEALED:

UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION CONTEMPLATED

INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15

13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom)
    N/A

14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE
    N/A

15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels,).
    Request investigation of registrant in view of remarks made by registrant in remarks section of DB Form 98 and DD Form 398. SSN: 4-42-42-204

![photo of regraded section]

Headquartors
US Army Recruiting Command
Hampton, Virginia 23369

INCLS
2

TYPED NAME AND TITLE
MYRON K. HAYASHIDA
1/LT, AGC

SIGNATURE

372

DATE

SECTION II - CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER

16. NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED
    ITEMS ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.
    INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.

INCLS

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

SIGNATURE

DA FORM 2784
1 APR 64

NW 88613 Docld:34528580 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

## SECTION III - REQUE.

17. REPORT OF ACTION

*   INFORMATION NOTED

*   SUBJECT REARS

SENSITIVE DUTIES INVESTIGATION

MAY BE CANCELED.

*   INFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR TO

CLEARANCE. REQUEST COMPLETION

OF INVESTIGATION.

18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED

TO HEADQUARTERS PER DATED

19. REMARKS (If returning corrected forms, state here)

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE

## SECTION IV - CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY

20. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

*   NO RECORD

*   FAVORABLE

*   MINOR UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21

*   PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED

IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION.

*   FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETER-

MINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY

DATE 30 MAR 1967

TYPE OF INVESTIGATION COMPLETED BY DATE DOSSIER NUMBER

*   NAC

*   NACI

*   BI

*   OTHER USAINTC 29 Mar 1967 AA 81 40 20

21. REMARKS

a. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873

(if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.

b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE

RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.

c. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH

AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH AR 381-130, AS APPLICABLE.

INCLS SUBJECT'S Dossier and that of HIS father - D8 03 23 86 TYPED NAME AND TITLE DAN H. DIETRICH SIGNATURE

Lt Col AIS

Chief of Operations III

## SECTION V - ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE DATE

RESCINDED PER DA MESSAGE DA 78575, DATED 16 MAY 66

REQUEST ADDITIONAL INVESTIGATION AS INDICATED IN ITEM 24

22. REPORT OF ACTION

*   FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF

COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED

*   UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION,

RECOMMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24

23. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED

TO HEADQUARTERS Regraded Unclassified When Separated DATE

24. REMARKS

> [Figure: A confidential marking is displayed.]

37"BOR O...A ... ... ONLY - This protective Marking is Excluded from Automatic Termination"

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE

NW 88613 DocId:34528580 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)