Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10384
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 43-44

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/19/68
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL
CHARACTER REFERENCE (NEIGHBOR)

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34529200 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

amr

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   MARTI, Manuel NMN
   PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
   DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   19 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8240-6019
   193 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(LISTED CHARACTER REFERENCE) On 24 October 1968, Ramona Rodriguez,
Housewife, Apartment 4E, 905 East 167th Street, Bronx, New York, was
interviewed in her residence concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has known
SUBJECT since 1951 stated substantially as follows:

Source met SUBJECT and HIS parents as neighbors in 1951 when
Source moved into the apartment across from SUBJECT at 905 East 167th Street,
Bronx, New York. Source became a close friend of SUBJECT'S mother and saw
SUBJECT daily until HIS family moved from the building in 1965. Source
continued to visit SUBJECT'S mother after 1965 and until her death in early
1967. Source had not seen SUBJECT since the funeral of HIS mother in 1967.

Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT's birthplace since HE was
approximately six years of age when they first met. Source knew SUBJECT'S
parents as Manuel and Reyes Marti. HE has an older brother, Ivan, and a
younger sister, Blanca. SUBJECT was brought up in a very respectable home,
and HIS parents exercised very strict control over the children. SUBJECT
graduated from high school in Bronx, New York, shortly before HE and HIS
parents moved from the neighborhood, further details unknown. Source had
no knowledge of SUBJECT'S employment.

SUBJECT is a quiet, friendly, serious-minded young man of excellent
character and personal behavior. HE was never known to be adversely
involved with law enforcement agencies. HIS parents were very strict and
watchful over the upbringing of SUBJECT and HIS brother and they were not
allowed to roam the streets or participate in any neighborhood gang activi-
ties. Most of SUBJECT'S free time from school was spent at home with HIS
studies, and with HIS hobbies of stamp collection, and HIS pet birds and
fishes. Source believed that SUBJECT'S father worked in a factory, further
details unknown, and was never known to operate HIS own business. HIS
parents were never heard to speak badly about the United States and its
democratic institutions, and Source was of the opinion that SUBJECT was
brought up as a loyal United States citizen. SUBJECT is a mature, emotionally
stable young man, and because of HIS home training Source was of the opinion
that HE would be financially responsible. SUBJECT was not known to have any
organizational affiliations, nor to have traveled outside of the United
States. HE is honest, trustworthy and dependable, and has manifested no
undesirable social habits. Source suggested Luisa Perez, 905 East 167th
Street, Bronx, New York, as a friend of SUBJECT's family. She was unable
to suggest other persons in the neighborhood who would have knowledge of
SUBJECT since most of the people presently residing in the apartment building
moved there since SUBJECT moved away in 1965. 43

Continued


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN
PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

amr

2. DATE SUBMITTED

19 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019
093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

Rodriguez recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

AGENT'S NOTES: Source who had a closer relationship with SUBJECT and HIS family than her spouse, Atanacio Rodriguez, was interviewed in lieu of her spouse who was not available. It is believed that SUBJECT erroneously listed Source's husband as Antonio instead of Atanacio.

44

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp,(I-SIB)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![Signature of Alphonso E. Marshall]

NW 88613 Docld:34529200 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)