Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10396
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 58-59

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO : [ RESTRICTED ]
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/18/68
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE (ASSOCIATE)

MUTUAL INSURANCE ADVISORY ASSOCIATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34529212 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

## 1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

## 2. DATE SUBMITTED

18 November 1968

## 3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

093 36 4601

## 4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(DEVELOPED CHARACTER REFERENCE) On 20 October 1968, Lucien Todman, Computer Operator, Mutual Insurance Advisory Association (MIAA), 733 3rd Avenue, New York, New York, who resides in Apartment 4A, 1660 Andrews Avenue, Bronx, New York 10453, was interviewed at his residence concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has known SUBJECT slightly over two years stated substantially as follows:

Source and SUBJECT met in July 1966 when Source went to work at MIAA and was introduced to SUBJECT who gave Source his orientation regarding operations within the data processing at MIAA. Source and SUBJECT became good friends and rode to and from work together since they resided in the same general neighborhood. SUBJECT visited Source's home socially on a few occasions, and they made visits to the United Nations and other cultural sites together. Source had not seen SUBJECT since May 1968 when HE was drafted into the United States Army.

SUBJECT is a native of Puerto Rico, but Source assumed that HE moved to New York City when HE was very young inasmuch as HIS knowledge of HIS native island was very limited, and HE frequently queried Source, a Virgin Islander, concerning conditions in Puerto Rico. Source met SUBJECT'S father, HIS sister, and HIS brother, names unknown, on the occasion of the death of SUBJECT'S mother in early 1967, when Source attended the funeral. SUBJECT appeared to be very much attached to HIS mother and until her death most of HIS time was spent between work and visiting HIS mother at the hospital. SUBJECT never mentioned HIS father, and Source was not aware of his existence until they met briefly at the funeral of SUBJECT'S mother. SUBJECT'S brother was in the military service at the time of HIS mother's death and is believed to have traveled from Germany for the funeral. Source believes that SUBJECT received a deferment from military service because of HIS mother's illness and the fact that HIS other brother was on active military duty. This gave Source the impression that SUBJECT was the family's main support. SUBJECT is an avid reader and has a keen interest in history. HE is a high school graduate and college at nigitfor a short period. Source believed that HE attended New York City College and took courses in history. SUBJECT is not known to have any organizational affiliations. HE and Source have held many discussions concerning local and world politics and MARTI has always staunchly defended the basic democratic philosophy of the United States Government. They have also discussed the subject of Puerto Rico's welfare, independence or state- hood and MARTI has expressed the view that Puerto Rico's welfare and that of its people is best served under the island's present commonwealth status. SUBJECT is a very intelligent, friendly, industrious and responsible young man. HE appears to be very mature in HIS thoughts and actions, and has had no known difficulty with creditors or law enforcement agencies. Source

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Group (I-SIB

[Signature]

NW 88613 Docld:34529212 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   MARTI, Manuel NMN
   PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
   DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   18 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8240-6019
   093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

does not know if SUBJECT uses alcoholic beverages at all because on the occasions that HE visited Source's home HE refused to have anything to drink. HE is not known to use habit forming drugs, and has manifested no undesirable personal habits whatever. HIS main hobby is stamp collection. Source does not believe that SUBJECT has traveled abroad since His arrival in New York City, and Source has no knowledge of relatives or business interest HE might have abroad. Source unhesitatingly vouches for SUBJECT'S loyalty to the United States. Source was unable to suggest anyone who may have knowledge of SUBJECT.

Todman highly recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

![image of number 59]

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
   ![signature of special agent]
   C. heozser

DA FORM 341 REPLACES WE FORM 311, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.
1 APR 52

NW 88613 DocId:34529212 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)