Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CSF/INSCOM Date : 12/10/97
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10006-10313 Page: 1
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC640653W-PAGE 49

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : AGENT REPORT
DATE: 02/04/72
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS : KAMINSKI, HANS D

[ RESTRICTED]

JOHN THE DEE JAY

GENERAL NUISANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94

NW 88613 Docld:34530607 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   4 February 1972

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(4)

(C) On 1 February 1972, Phillip W. May, PFC, 444-48-5481, Custodial Agent, C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln (LC8424), Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), APO New York 09078, was interviewed at his place of duty concerning an incident of possible Counter-Intelligence interest, and stated substantially as follows:

(C) About two or three weeks ago, Source was approached by a man that identified himself as John the Dee Jay in the Stadtschaenke Bar, Datteln. John said that he was the Disc Jockey at the Lord Nelson, another bar in Datteln. With Source at the Stadtschaenke were John Stelpflug, John Lukasik, and Terry Drivis (PHONETIC). John the Dee Jay made a general nuisance of himself. He talked about security at the site and gave verbally a list of telephone numbers he claimed were security information telephone numbers in Heidleberg (MV7773), FRG, and other cities in FRG. Source was unable to recall any of the telephone numbers John the Dee Jay mentioned. John asked Source who the Security Sergeant of the unit was. He also asked about persons who had been formerly assigned to the unit. Source was not familiar with any of the names mentioned as Source has been at the unit only a short time. John talked about how, if he was a spy, he would get information from people. Source felt that John the Dee Jay was trying to make him and the others nervous. John spoke fluent English and German and claimed that he could speak Russian. Source described John as follows:

Height: Six feet to six feet one inch
Weight: 200-210 pounds
Age: 27-28 years old
Build: Solid
Dress: Wore furry coat and shoes, possibly camel hair

Source had not met John the Dee Jay before and had not seen or had contact with him since and gave negative responses to all questions posed by him.


5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

HEINZ E. ICKERT, 66th MI Group

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

DA FORM 341 REPLACES WD AGO
1 APR 52

NW 88613 Docld:34530607 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)