JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 01/14/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10393
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGE 54

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE: 11/19/68
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE (NEIGHBOR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

amr

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   MARTI, Manuel NMN
   PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
   DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico
2. DATE SUBMITTED
   19 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8240-6019
   093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(DEVELOPED CHARACTER REFERENCE) On 24 October 1968, Luisa Perez, Housewife, Apartment 5E, 905 East 167th Street, New York, New York 10459, was interviewed in her residence concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has known SUBJECT since 1956 stated substantially as follows:

Source moved into the building at the above listed address in 1956 and met SUBJECT and HIS family who resided in apartment 2E across from Source. Perez became friendly with SUBJECT'S mother and was a regular visitor to SUBJECT'S home until HE and HIS family moved from the building in 1965. Since 1965 Source had visited SUBJECT'S home on University Avenue, New York, New York, exact address unknown, on various occasions, and she last saw SUBJECT when HE visited her in the hospital approximately four months ago.

Source believed that SUBJECT was born in Puerto Rico and was brought to New York City by HIS parents while HE was still a baby. HE has an older brother, Ivan, and a younger sister, Blanca. HIS parents are Manuel and Reyes Marti. SUBJECT'S mother died in early 1967. SUBJECT attended high school, namé unknown, in Bronx, New York, from which HE graduated prior to moving to HIS present address. Source had no knowledge concerning SUBJECT'S or HIS father's employment, and she could not furnish additional information regarding HIS personal background.

SUBJECT was reared in a very respectable home, and HIS parents paid strict attention to the rearing of SUBJECT and HIS brother and sister. HE was never allowed to roam the streets nor to participate in any gang activities in the neighborhood. All of SUBJECT'S sparetime was spent at home with HIS studied and HIS hobbies of stamp collection and the rearing of birds and fishes. Source never heard SUBJECT and HIS parents make any critical remarks concerning the United States or express any sympathy for the Communist philosophy, and MARTI is presumed to be a loyal United States citizen. HIS moral character, integrity, and personal behavior are above reproach, and HE is considered to be honest, trustworthy, dependable, and financially responsible. SUBJECT was never known to be adversely involved with law enforcement agencies, and HE never manifested any un- desirable social habits. SUBJECT was not known to have any organizational affiliations, nor to have traveled outside of the United States and its possessions. Source was unable to suggest the names of other individuals who were acquainted with SUBJECT in the neighborhood.

54

Perez recommended that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)
6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

NW 88613 Docld:34529209 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)