Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

## JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10382
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 41

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/18/68
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE (CO-WORKER)

MUTUAL INSURANCE ADVISORY ASSOCIATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34529198 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

amr

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   18 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8240-6019
   093 36 4601

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN
PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(EMPLOYMENT CO-WORKER) On 24 September 1968, Anthony Gennarelli, Operations Analyst, Mutual Insurance Advisory Association (MIAA), 733 3rd Avenue, New York, New York 10017, who resides at 50 Barlow Avenue, Staten Island, New York 10038, a former co-worker of Manuel MARTI, was interviewed at his place of employment concerning SUBJECT. Gennarelli, who has known SUBJECT since April 1965, stated substantially as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT in April 1965 when MARTI started to work in the same department as Source at MIAA, and he pursued a daily business association with SUBJECT until HE left MIAA to enter the United States Army in May 1968. Source had no social contact with SUBJECT, and had not seen MARTI since May 1968. SUBJECT worked at MIAA as a Utility Clerk, Utility Clerk Supervisor and finally as a Tabulating Machine Operator. HE was very highly regarded by HIS associates at MIAA and everyone was sorry to see HIM leave.

SUBJECT was single and resided with HIS parents, names unknown, at an unknown address in Bronx, New York. SUBJECT'S mother died on or about 9 January 1967. SUBJECT has a brother and young sister, names unknown, who also resided in HIS household. HE is a high school graduate, and attended college at night, further details unknown. Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S employment prior to MIAA. Source believed that SUBJECT and HIS parents were originally from Puerto Rico.

SUBJECT is of excellent moral character and discretion. HE is dependable, mature and emotionally stable. SUBJECT has had no known difficulty with law enforcement agencies, and HE manifested no undesirable personal habits. HE firmly believes in the principles of a free democratic society and is considered loyal to the United States. Source had no knowledge of the degree of influence exercised over SUBJECT by HIS parents. SUBJECT had no known organizational affiliations, and Source had no knowledge concerning HIS foreign travels, relatives residing abroad, or business interest in foreign countries.

Gennarelli recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

![image]

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

FORM
DA 341
1 APR 52

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
   Robert C. Steagger

REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88613 Docld:34529198 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)