Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 07/22/96
Page : 1

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10013-10005
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ZF000003W - PAGES 959-960

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : AGENT REPORT
DATE : 01/24/68
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

DEFECTOR

GRIGGS, KENNETH C.

[ RESTRICTED ]

INTERVIEW

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : PAGES 959-960 WERE REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 22 SEP 94.
EXHIBITS I THRU IV INDEXED SEPARATELY.

NW 88613 Docld:34531203 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

GRIGGS, Kenneth C.
PFC, RA 19 772 378 (C)
DPOB: 25 December 1946, Korea

2. DATE SUBMITTED

24 January 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8008-9182 SSAN: 519-46-94

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

On 23 January 1968, Mr. Cecil L. Griggs, retired dairyman, residing
at 2615 North 30th Street, Boise, Idaho, was interviewed at his home concerning
letters received in reference to his adopted son, Kenneth C. GRIGGS, and
stated substantially as follows:

- Source stated that he had received two letters concerning SUBJECT
  from a Philip LaChapelle Jr, 1724 North Linder, Chicago, Illinois, who claimed
  to have been the Security and Intelligence clerk with the 191st Ordinance
  Battalion, Vietnam, but was presently out of the US Army. LaChapelle, in his
  first letter dated 8 November 1967, indicated to Source that being SUBJECT'S
  closest friend in Vietnam, he felt that he should write to Source giving some
  history and facts concerning the period prior to SUBJECT's defection. LaChapell
  indicated sympathy and concern over SUBJECT's defection. LaChapelle stated that
  he believed the Army had, suppressed information to cover up mistakes. LaChapell
  told Source about SUBJECT being beaten and shunned by HIS companions during HIS
  assignment with the 191st Ordinance Battalion and that he was SUBJECT's only
  friend. LaChapelle stated that he had also written to SUBJECT, but had received
  no answer. Copy of letter written by LaChapelle dated 8 November 1967 is
  attached as EXHIBIT I. On 16 November 1967, Source answered the letter of
  8 November 1967 thanking LaChapelle for the communication. Source indicated
  that he had very little knowledge of SUBJECT's philosophy or plans and requested
  further information from LaChapelle since he was apparently more knowledgeable
  concerning these aspects. Source asked four specific questions of LaChapelle.
  First asking about SUBJECT's view of the world, as known by LaChapelle. Secondly
  asking LaChapelle's view on why SUBJECT felt that HIS conscience dictated decision
  was a solution to any problems that HE envisioned. Thirdly was SUBJECT encouraged
  by a third party to defect and the last question was whether SUBJECT's defection was
  motivated by resentment about HIS treatment by other Army personnel. Source
  indicated that LaChapelle's tone in his letter indicated a certain feeling of
  bitterness about the way the incident was handled by the US Army. Source requested
  a reply because the information would be of interest to Source. Copy of letter
  by Source dated 16 November 1967 is attached as EXHIBIT II. LaChapelle
  again wrote to Source on 20 November 1967, indicating interest in the letter
  written by Source on 16 November 1967. LaChapelle stated that he was bitter
  because the Army took no remedial action concerning the mental state of SUBJECT,
  and indicated to Source that SUBJECT had a medical history of emotional
  disturbance. LaChapelle stated that he had been the Security and Intelligence
  Clerk, 191st Ordinance Battalion, Vietnam, and SUBJECT's personnel records
  had passed over his desk after the defection. LaChapelle indicated that the
  records had been classified to conceal any embarrassing incidents. LaChapelle
  commented on the National Security in reference to the classification of SUBJECT'S
  records. LaChapelle indicated that SUBJECT's view of the world was that HE
  was simply bitter and thought it was going in the wrong direction. LaChapelle
  (continued)

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

FLOYD R. BEERY, 115th MI

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![signature of special agent]

NW 88613 DocId:34531203 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   GRIGGS, Kenneth C.
   PFC, RA 19 772 378
   DPOB: 25 December 1946, Korea

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   24 January 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8008-9182 SSAN: 519-45-7994

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

stated that SUBJECT favored an absolute state of control as long as HE was one of the ruling class. LaChapelle stated that SUBJECT's defection was the truest decision HE could make thus making the only solution HIS conscience dictated. LaChapelle stated that SUBJECT was not encouraged by a third party to defect except maybe the world around HIM. LaChapelle stated that only three people other than himself who were in any way friendly were Chaplain Camp, presently in Germany, Hal Nelson, and John Klink. They would not encourage a defection. SUBJECT would not let HIMSELF be influenced by others. LaChapelle went on saying that SUBJECT'S defection was motivated by HIS resentment of HIS treatment by other personnel, indicating that HE had been beaten and required stitches in HIS head on one occasion and that HE was considered different by HIS section leaders. SUBJECT had mentioned defection to LaChapelle, but LaChapelle had talked HIM out of it. At that point in their relationship, the friendship between LaChapelle and SUBJECT seemed to decline. LaChapelle blames the Army and society for forcing SUBJECT to defect. LaChapelle requested any information or photographs of SUBJECT because LaChapelle intends to be a writer and wants to write about SUBJECT and HIS problems. A copy of letter dated 20 November 1967, written by LaChapelle is attached as EXHIBIT III. On 24 November 1967, Source answered the letter of 20 November 1967, stating that at first he was apprehensive and wondered how much LaChapelle was involved with SUBJECT. Source commented that he could offer very little concerning SUBJECT for LaChapelle to use in his writing. Source stated that SUBJECT's mental problems started before HIS entry into the US Army and that LaChapelle should take a more kindly view of the people who comprise society. Source gave LaChapelle a short history of SUBJECT from the time HE came to the United States in 1956 to the time HE was placed in the Childrens Home, Boise. During this period, SUBJECT would not stay with any one thing for very long, such as scouts, sports, and physical activities. HE became angry very easily. SUBJECT was intelligent in school. From the time HE was placed in the Childrens Home until HE entered the US Army, SUBJECT had a history of running away and was never satisfied being in the same place for very long. SUBJECT finished high school and entered the military service. Source stated his desire to agan hear from LaChapelle. A copy of letter dated 24 November 1967, written by Source is attached as EXHIBIT IV.

Source stated that he had not received any other correspondence concerning SUBJECT. Neither Source nor his family have heard from SUBJECT or any official of the Cuban Embassy in Japan. Source further stated that he had no information concerning SUBJECT's present whereabouts or HIS future plans. Source stated that he would advise this office in the event he received other letters or information pertaining to SUBJECT.

AGENT'S NOTES: Source was very cooperative. He had original letters written by LaChapelle and carbon copies of his replies, which Source allowed this office to copy

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   FLOYD R. BEERY, 115th WIDOW8GB (DV)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![Signature of Floyd R. Beery]

NW 88613 Docld:34531203 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)