Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date: 08/19/98
Page: 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10005-10066
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGES 85-86

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED]
DATE : 10/27/58
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT

EMPLOYMENT

REPORT OF FINDINGS

HILLTOP LODGE

AGENT REPORT

[ RESTRICTED]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : SEE AGENT'S NOTES.

NW 88613 Docld:34529852 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(SR 380-320-10)

rm

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

SCHEER, Robert
Pre-Inductee
DOB: 4 April 1936
POB: Bronx, New York

2. DATE SUBMITTED

27 October 1958

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

H1-016940

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

16 (EMPLOYMENT) On 27 October 1958, Paul Wolfson, 424 Marlborough Road, Brooklyn, New York, former co-owner of Hilltop Lodge, a listed employment of SUBJECT, supplied the following information in substance:

Name Recorded:

Robert SHEER

Residence Address:

653 Britton Street,
Bronx, New York

Social Security Number:

112-28-1134

Dates of Employment:

July and August 1953

Job Title:

Waiter, summer camp

Rate of Pay:

$60.00 monthly. Total pay $121.50

Reason For Leaving:

End of summer season

Eligible for Rehire:

Yes

Other Pertinent Information:

SUBJECT listed occupation as student, enrolled to attend Queens College, beginning in September 1953.

85

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

PAUL F. ROHDE, 108th CIC Group

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

DA FORM 341
1 APR 52

REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47 WHICH MAY BE USED

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

NW 88613 DocId:34529852 Page 2

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1954-0-284854


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# AGENT REPORT
(SR 380-320--10)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

SCHEER, Robert
Pre-Inductee
DOB: 4 April 1936
POB: Bronx, New York

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   27 October 1958

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   H1-016940

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

17 (EMPLOYMENT) On 27 October 1958, Paul Wolfson, accountant, and former co-owner of Hilltop Lodge, Sylvan Lake, New York, with residence at 424 Marlborough Road, Brooklyn, New York, declined to be interviewed at his residence, but furnished substantially the following information spontaneously in telephonic contact:

Source knew SUBJECT as a summer camp waiter employed at Hilltop Lodge, during July and August 1953. Frequency of contact was several times weekly, and the last contact was in August 1953.

SUBJECT performed HIS duties well, got along well with guests at Hilltop Lodge, and left in August 1953, at the end of the 1953, Summer season. Source found SUBJECT an honest, trustworthy and reliable employee. HE used good judgment in the performance of HIS duties, and departed this job eligible for rehire. Source knew nothing further concerning SUBJECT'S background, associates, or loyalty to the United States.

AGENT'S NOTES: Numerous attempts were made to personally interview Source at 424 Marlborough Road, Brooklyn, New York with negative results. Source called the 108th CIC Group, and furnished the above information. The call was in response to a letter left at his residence requesting an appointment for interview.

[Figure: The number 86 is printed in the middle of the page.]

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   PAUL F. ROHDE, 108th CIC Group

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

[Figure: Signature of Paul F. Rohde]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)