Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 01/20/98
Page : 1

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10002-10091
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGES 274-370

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 05/31/67
PAGES: 97
SUBJECTS: FROMER, DAVID R.

FROMER, IRVING RHODES

COMMUNIST PARTY ACTIVITIES

AMERICAN-RUSSIAN INSTITUTE OF SAN FRANCISCO

CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL LIBERTIES

FLYNN, ELIZABETH GURLEY

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA COMMITTEE FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE
FOREIGN BORN

SAN FRANCISCO CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE AMERICAN
FREEDOMS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/12/97
OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI
COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 17 OCT 1997.

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   FROMER, David Reed
   SSvc Registrant
   DPOB: 21 July 1942, Chicago, Illinois

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   31 May 1967
3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   7129-6003 564-58-8137

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(U) (LOCAL AGENCY-SUBJECT'S FATHER) On 23 May 1967, files of the San
Francisco Office (SFO), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), 450 Golden
Gate Avenue, San Francisco, California, were examined regarding Irving Fromer
for any information subsequent to 1 February 1962 by a representative of
Source who furnished the following:

(C) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 27
March 1962, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT VII. This report
contains information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

(e) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 29
March 1963, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT VIII. This report
contains_information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

(C) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 30
March 1964, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT IX. This report
contains information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

(e) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 30
March 1965, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT X. This report
contains information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

(C) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 14
March 1966, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT XI. This report
contains information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

(4)
(C) The representative furnished a copy of a report, SFO FBI, dated 28
March 1967, Field Office File No: 100-33836, Title: Irving Rhodes Fromer,
classified CONFIDENTIAL, which is attached as EXHIBIT XII. This report
contains information regarding Fromer's communist activities.

AGENT'S NOTE: Exhibits are attached to the original only of this report.

![EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING; per DA message DO NOT REGRADE]

![274]

![DECLASSIFIED BY 566.8 SLD/KSR ON 4-19-96 (JFK)]

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

EUGENE J. POWER, 115th MI Group (I)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![signature]

FORM
DA 341 REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.
1 APR 52

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

EXHIBIT COVER SHEET

Exhibit Number: I

SUBJECT: FROMER, David Reed
SSvc Registrant
DPOB: 21 July 1942, Chicago, Illinois

File Number: 7129-6003 564-58-8137

Preparing Unit: 115th MI Group ( I )

Agent Report Dated: 31 May 1967

Description: Report, SFO FBI dated 27 March 62 reSUBJECT'S father

REVIEWED BY FEWJFK TASK FORCE

![Reviewed by FEWJFK TASK FORCE]

![ICGP-F Form 2-25]

![Classification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SENEHDENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of: SA FRANCIS T. DAVIS
Office: SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
Date: 3/27/62

Field Office File No.: San Francisco 100-33836
Bureau File No.: 100-365779

Title: IRVING RHODES FROMER

Character: INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Synopsis: Subject resides 881 Clayton Street, San Francisco, and is employed as an architectural draftsman through American Institute of Architects, 47 Kearny Street, San Francisco. Subject reported to be member Lincoln Club, SFCCP and reported in attendance at SFCCPAF, CCCL and ARI meetings.

- P# -

REVIEWED BY FEWJFK TASK FORCE
10/15/97 dot

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLDIKSR
ON 4-19-96 (JFK).

276

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SF 100-33836
FID/rew

DETAILS:

# I. BACKGROUND

Residence

The Subject resides at 881 Clayton Street, San Francisco.

Mr. E. A. PAULSEN
879 Clayton Street
San Francisco on
3/15/62.

Employment

The Subject is employed as an architectural draftsman for various architects and construction projects in the San Francisco area obtaining his employment through the placement service of the American Institute of Architects, 47 Kearny Street, San Francisco.

Mrs. ETHEL SMITH
Executive Director,
AIA, on 3/21/62

# II. COMMUNIST PARTY (CP) AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

## San Francisco County Communist Party (SFCCP)

The Subject is a member of the Lincoln Club, SFCCP, and although he has recently moved into the area which encompasses the members of the Sunset Club, SFCCP, he has not as yet effected a transfer into the Sunset Club.

SF T-1 - 3/15/62

## American-Russian Institute of San Francisco (ARI)

The ARI has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

The Subject attended the 30th Anniversary celebration of the ARI, which was held at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, on November 19, 1961. The purpose of this meeting was also to celebrate the 44th anniversary of the Russian

277 -2-
NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

revolution and the 7th birthday of the Secretary of the ARI. One of the speakers at this meeting told of his trip to New Delhi and the Soviet Union. He said the Soviet Union, Cuba, and China have been accused of suppressing rights, freedom, religion and speech. He said that this was not true. These countries do not want soap box criticians but they respect the broader right of the majority and sometimes individual rights have to give way to the rights of the majority.

The guest speaker at this meeting was DMITRY MURAYEV, who was introduced as a Cultural Attache with the Soviet Embassy. He presented the Secretary of the ARI with a gold watch and read a prepared speech. He said Russia wants peace and that the U.S. and Russia fought together during the war and still can be friends but Nazi elements in Germany are being supported by the U.S. Government. He said Russia would disarm if disarmament could be agreed upon but now the U.S. has rearmed Germany and they have the second largest army in Europe with rockets, tanios, and atomic weapons. He said the Russians are ready to defend their homeland against the Germans and felt that they had to do something to dramatize their readiness to defend themselves so they resumed atomic testing.

SF T-2 - 11/20/61

The Subject attended a reception sponsored by the ARI and held at the Sheraton-Palace Hotel in San Francisco, on January 20, 1962. This reception honored a group of visitors from the Soviet Union.

HOLLAND ROBERTS, President of the ARI, and M. M. DOMRACHEV, a member of the Board of the Institute of Soviet- American Relations, gave speeches which stressed cultural exchange and friendship.

SF T-3-1/22/02

Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties (CCCL)

See Appendix Page.

The Subject attended a meeting sponsored by the CCCL held at 150 Golden Cate Avenue on December 1, 1961. At this meeting a monologue was presented entitled "Are You How Or Have You Ever Been A Horses Thier", which was a satire on the McCarran Act.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SF 100-33836
FID/rew

A skit was then presented to represent the petition of the Communist Party before the Supreme Court in regard to the registration provisions of the McCarran Act. After the akit, MICKEY LIMA was introduced as Chairman of the Northern California District of the CP, who would present his views on the registration. LIMA read a statement in which he said that the CP in good conscience could not and would not register because to do so would violate the law of self-incrimination. If the CP registered, they would admit to being spies, saboteurs, and agents of a foreign power.

LIMA said that the CP is leading the fight for freedom. If the present trend continues, the Government can later attack the labor unions and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). The ruling party in the Government will be able to get any group they wish to register.

SF T-2 - 12/10/61

Subject attended a meeting sponsored by the CCCL held at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, on January 24, 1962. The Chairman of the meeting gave an opening statement of the purpose of the CCCL and the purpose of the meeting. He mentioned that the Bill of Rights is under attack and that the military forces are controlling the Government and the press and that civil rights are being repressed. He said that these things are of concern to the Committee and they have asked GUS HALL to present his views of the current situation.

HALL then spoke and said that he is presently on a lecture tour all over the country presenting the views of the CP. He mentioned that he had requests to speak at schools all over the United States. He said that the CP is being prevented by law and by control of the press from expressing their views and that they only want the right of free speech which is being denied them.

HALL said that at a recent press conference he was asked to give his position in the Party both now and prior to June 6, 1961. He told the press at that time that he could be referred to as an authoritative spokesman for communism.

HALL said that the people don't really know what the McCarran law means. When the law went into effect he was

-4-

279


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SF 100-33836
TD/rew

supposed to register. He has been indicted already and is
under possible sentence of 500 years in jail and $1,000,000
fine. HALL went on to my that he went to jail under the
Smith Act and that for thirty years the Government has tried
to prove that the CP has been advocating the violent
overthrow of the Government and that all commmmists are agents
of a foreign power and are espionage agents etc. but has falled
to do so.

According to HALL, the HeCarran Act came into
being during the McCarthy era when the Administration was
being pressured to prosecute communists. The Attorney General
said the Government couldn't prosecute them as they did not
have the necessary evidence. Congress decided to get around
the courts by legislative anactment. They appointed a political
committee and presented a lot of illegal and unconstitutional
evidence and came up with a finding that the communite are
agents of a foreign power and spies and saboteurs.

HALL said that, according to the Attorney General,
the present Act is simply a registration statute similar to
registrations of foreigners, voters, dealers in securities, etc.
However, a recent decision of the Supreme Court held that it
is not necessary to be a card carrying member of the CF or do
an act which is generally attributed to communists but it is
only necessary to have a state of mind and be in sympathy
with any of the objectives of commmism and you could be
prosecuted under the law.

HALL said assuming he did register, he would have
to register each official and member of the Party and if he
didn't, they would be required to register or be liable to
$10,000 fine and ten years imprisonment for each day they
failed to register. He would also be required to register any
commumist organization or any association or organisation that
has affiliation with the CP. He must also list every typewriter,
mimeograph machine, photostat machine, and printing press by
serial zamber. HALL said that you can begin to see the
diabolical threat of fascian which is beginning to become real.
He said that in addition to these penalties, he can receive
the death penalty in Texas, a life sentence in other states
and sentences of 20 to 10 years in other states. He is also
prohibited from obtaining Veterans or Goverment housing,
employment in the teaching profession, from making movies in

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 8

280


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SF 100-33836
FID/rew

Hollywood, or plays on Broadway under this Act. He said that communists can't even work in Government atomic plants.

HALL said that California has more native right-wing support than any other state and it is the idea of certain right-wingers to unite these organizations under one group. He said that is how Nazien came about and they won't stop with the CP. HALL said that the reason the right-wing is making such an onslaught is because a different social system is overtaking capitalism and many of the older people find it difficult to accept the new philosophy of life and they oppose it.

SF T-2 - 1/25/62

San Francisco Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedans (SFCCPAF)

See Appendix Page.

The Subject attended a fund raising party sponsored by the SFCCPAF for FRANK WILKINSON held at at 99 Ashbury Street, San Francisco, on February 17, 1962.

VILKINSON gave a speech in which he denounced the Government and the Supreme Court for the decisions they have handed down outlawing the CP. He predicted that an irate populace would soon force the Supreme Court to change its position on these issues.

He spoke of his jail experiences and condemned the Government for segregating the staffs of the Federal prisons.

SF T-4 - 2/20/62

In an article in the "San Francisco Examiner newspaper of March 20, 1961, it was noted that WILKINSON was convicted of contempt of Congress for refusing to state before the House Committee on Un-American Activities whether he had ever been a member of the CP. His sentence of one year in Jail was upheld by the United States Supreme Court.

"People's World" (PW)

The PW is a west coast communist newspaper published in San Francisco.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SF 100-33836
FID/rew

The Subject attended a Pw bazaar through the period
December 8 - 10, 1961.

SF T-4 - 12/11/61


-7- 282


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS

A source advised on May 4, 1960, that the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms (CCPAF) was organized in Los Angeles, California, in January, 1952, for the announced purpose of supporting a number of individuals from the medical and legal professions who had been subpoenaed to appear before the House Committee on Un-American Activities.

Since its establishment, the CCPAF, in extending its scope, has worked for the abolition of all Congressional, State, and local committees investigating subversive activities and in the latter part of 1954 became very active in opposition to State and Federal legislation directed at the Communist movement.

FRANK WILKINSON, Executive Secretary of the CCPAF, is described by the source as the "brains and energy" behind the organization.

Another source advised on September 17, 1952, that FRANK WILKINSON was a Communist Party member as of September, 1952.


APPENDIX PAGE

-8-

283


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

SAN FRANCISCO CITIZENS COMMITTEE
TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS (SFCCPAF)

A source advised on April 7, 1960, that a San Francisco affiliate of the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms (CCPAF) had been established at a meeting held in San Francisco on April 4, 1960. The source advised that the San Francisco affiliate, to be known as the San Francisco CCPAF, would carry out in Northern California, the program of the CCPAF.

Source advised on May 15, 1961, that the San Francisco CCPAF is active.

APPDNEIX PAGE

-9-

284


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SF 100-33836
FTDrew

CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL
LIBERTIES (FORTHERN CALIFORNIA)

A source advised on June 19, 1961, that MICKEY
LIMA, Chairman, Horthern California District, Communist
Party (CP), reported on June 15, 1961, that the CP, USA,
in response to the Supreme Court decision of June 5, 1961,
relating to the Internal Security Act of 1950 (ISA-50) had
decided to create a committee known as Citizens Committee
for Constitutional Liberties (CCCL), 22 East 17th Street,
New York City, and that a local committee would be
organized for Northern California.

This source advised on June 26, 1961, that a
meeting was held on June 18, 1961, at the home of ROSCOE
PROCTOR, member of the National Committee, CP, USA, for the
purpose of formulating the CCCL for Northern California.

A second source advised on September 14, 1961, that
the CCCL had opened an office at 942 Market Street, Room 401,
San Francisco, California, and that some of the furniture for
this office had come from the CP office on the same floor.

A third source advised on September 25, 1961,
that MICKEY LIMA (Supra) had indicated no further organizational
efforts would be expended on the CCCL in Northern California
until the local CP resolves its policy with regard to this
committee.

APPENDIX PAGE

-10-

285


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SF 100-33836
FTD/rew

CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL
LIBERTIES

A source advised on June 11, 1961, that a meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC), Communist Party, USA (CPUSA), was held on June 10, 1961, at CP headquarters, 23 West 26th Street, New York, New York. According to the source, the main topic of discussion at this meeting was the CP's plans in regard to combating the June 5, 1961, decision of the United States Supreme Court, requiring the CP to register with the Attorney General of the United States as a communist-action organization pursuant to the provisions of the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950 and the Court's decision of the same date upholding the April 21, 1955, conviction of Junius Scales under the Smith Act provision covering membership in the CP. This source further advised that during this discussion a special CP defense committee was formed and it was decided that this committee would have an office, which would be managed by Miriam Fried-lander who, according to the source, is a member of the CPUSA National Committee.

Another source advised on June 14, 1961, that at a meeting of the CPUSA National Board and invited guests held on that date at CP headquarters, New York City, it was announced that the CP defense committee would have an office at 22 East 17th Street, New York, New York, under the name of the Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties (CCCL).

A third source advised on July 20, 1961, that at a meeting of the CP defense committee held on that date at CP headquarters, New York City, the purpose and scope of the CCCL was discussed. It was stated that this committee has been set up to serve as a national coordinator and service center for every effort being made by whatever source to repeal the McCarran and Smith Acts. In addition, it has been set up to reverse the Supreme Court's decision of June 5, 1961, or secure an indefinite stay of any enforcement of the law by the Department of Justice.

It is to engage in generating a popular defense move-ment to mobilize legal assistance of any organization or individual whose "democratic rights are infringed upon by these laws." This committee wants to encourage the creation of local organizations or groups to work in support of any one of the above-stated objectives. The committee will also serve as an exchange center of material and provide speakers for any local organization.

APPENDIX PAGE
NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

FD-323 (3-28-60)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Francisco, California
March 27, 1962

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No. 100-33036

Title IRVING RHODES FROMER

Character INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Reference Report of Special Agent FRANCIS T. DAVIS dated and captioned as above at San Francisco.

All sources (except any listed below) used in referenced communication have furnished reliable information in the past.


FTD/rew
(7) #9


287

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# EXHIBIT COVER SHEET

Exhibit Number: VIII

SUBJECT: FROMER, David Reed
Ssve Registrant
DOB: 21 July 1942, Chicago, Illinois

File Number: 7129-6003 564-58-8137

Preparing Unit: 115th MI Group ( I )

Agent Report Dated: 31 May 1967

Description: Report, SFO FBI dated 29 March 63 re SUBJECT'S father

REVIEWED BY FEWJFK TASK FORCE
ON 10/15/91 dot

✓ RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

DECLASSIFIED BY 566.8 SLD/KSR
ON 4-19-96 (JFK)

Classification

ICGP-F Form 2-25
(Rev 25 Mar 66).

NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 16

288


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:
Date:
Field Office File #:
Office:
SAN FRANCISCO
Bureau File #:
Title:
SA FRANCIS T. DAVIS
3/29/53
100-33836
100-355779
IRVING RHODES FROMER

Character:
Synopsis:
SECURITY MATTER - C
Subject resides 881 Clayton Street, San Francisco,
and is employed as an architectural draftsman through
American Institute of Architects, 47 Kearney Street,
San Francisco. Subject reported to be a member of
Lincoln Club, SFCCP and in attendance at public
meetings sponsored by FCCP, NCCPPB, SPCCPAP, ARI,
PW, FPCC, and NG,

## DETAILS:

### I. BACKGROUND

### A. Residence

The Subject resides at 881 Clayton Street, San
Francisco, California.

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SP 100-33836
FTD/1r

## B. Employment

The Subject is employed as an Architectural Draftsman for various architects and construction projects in the San Francisco area, obtaining employment through the Placement Service of the American Institute of Architects, 47 Kearney Street, San Francisco.

(Mrs. ETHEL SMITH,
Executive Director,
ΑΙΑ, 3/15/03)

## II. COMMUNIST PARTY (CP) AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

### A. San Francisco County CP (SFCCP)

SF T-2, a self-admitted former member of the CP in the San Francisco area during the period from 1952 to 1957, advised on November 5, 1962, that she knows IRVING FROMER and his wife as members of the CP in San Francisco during that period.

At a meeting of the Sunset Club, SFCCP, which was held at 1235 42nd Avenue, San Francisco, on May 15, 1962, a discussion was held regarding IRVING PROMER and his wife. It was noted that the PROMERS had recently moved to the area covered by the Sunset Club. HERB NUGENT, Chairman of the SFCCP and a member of the Sunset Club, remarked that the FROMERS are in the Lincoln Club, SPCCP, and that they are needed in the Lincoln Club. He said, however, that the PROMERS do not contribute much to Club life and this is one of the problems of the Lincoln Club. He said that the Lincoln Club had agreed to meet at the FROMERS house, and the PROMERS didn't even arrive to attend meetings held at their own home. NUGENT said that both of the FROMERS are active in other mass organizations.

(SF T-3, 5/10/62)

IRVING FROMER is a member of the Lincoln Club, SPCCP.

(SF T-3, 3/1/63)

- 2 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SF 100-33836
FTD/Lr

The Subject attended a May Day meeting held at 150
Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, on May 1, 1962, sponsored
by the San Francisco Free Speech Forum. The Free Speech Forum
was set up by the SFCCP to hold public meetings.

WALTER STACK, a member of the SFCCP, was chairman
of this meeting and spoke on the meeting of May Day as a labor
holiday.

ARCHIE BROWN, a member of the SFCCP, discussed his
conviction under the Landum-Griffith Act. He said it is a test
case to see if the act is constitutional. They noted that he
was elected to the Executive Board of Local 10, International
Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union (LIWU), by members of
the local and it would make no difference if he resigned from
the CP because the Landum-Griffith Act says a person must not
have been a member in the past five years.

RALPH IZARD, a member of the SFCCP, gave a speech
on the subject of government and monopolies. He said the
government should spend money on the unemployed, the sick,
and the ill-housed instead of spending money trying to dominate
former colonial countries trying to establish independence.

ELIZABETH GURLEY FLYNN, Chairman, CP of the United
States of America (CPUSA), was the featured speaker. She
said that things were different today for Communists under
indictment than when she was indicted under the Smith Act.
She said at that time all doors were shut to them, but now
all doors are open. She said that GUS HALL and BEN DAVIS,
Communist functionaries, have been speaking to students all
over the country. She said that the government lanowo t
that she is the Chairman of the CPUSA but so far has not been
able to prove that she is a member of the CP. She said that
the State Department is trying to take away her passport under
the McCarran Act.

She also said that she had visited the Soviet Union
as a fraternal delegate to the Congress of the U.S.S.R. and
gave the Russians the greetings of the American people. She
also visited some of the Social Democracies and found no
unemployment there.

- 3 -
291
NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 19

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SF 100-33836
FTD/1r

She said that capitaliom cannot solve the problems of the people but the development of Socialism can.

(SF T-3, 5/11/32)

Subject's attendance at this meeting was verified.

(SF T-4, 5/2/32
SF T-5, 5/3/62
SF T-6, 5/8/52)

The Subject attended a public meeting sponsored by the CP held at 150 Golden Gate Avenue on December 5, 1952. MICKEY LIMA, Chairman of the Northern District of California CP, was Master of Ceremonies at this meeting. He said that he need not be introduced as everyone knew what his political views were. He introduced JOHN APT, Legal Council for the CP and Defense Attorney for CP members victimized by the McCarran Committee.

JOHN APT spoke of the complexities of the McCarran Act and how it had been used before in an attempt to convict MICKEY LIMA and others, and he told how the government had reversed the conviction on LIMA and the others because they lacked evidence to prove their charges. Now, the government is trying to get these people to confess to something that they had failed to prove the first time.

APT stated that President TRUMAN vetoed the McCarran Act on the grounds that it would put the government in the roll of a dictator.

He also spoke of the concentration camps scattered throughout the country and noted that anyone could be placed in them if the government felt they were a danger to the national war crisis.

He spoke of the flexibility of the McCarran Act, which he said could be used against any citizen for any given reason and at any given time.

- 4 -

292

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SF 100-33836
FTD/1r

ELIZABETH GURLEY FLYNN also spoke and said she felt
slighted because she was not indicted for failure to register
along with GUS HALL and BEN DAVIS, however, she had some
satisfaction in that the government was trying to take her
passport from her.

(SF T-7, 12/5/62)

B. Northern California Committee for the Protection of the
Foreign Born (NCCPPB), and Committee for Constitutional
Liberties (CCL) (See Appendix Pages)

The Subject attended a conference sponsored by the
NCCPFE and CCL held at 739 Page Street, San Francisco, on
September 23, 1962. JEAN KRAMER, Chairman of the conference,
opened the meeting by stating that its purpose was to discuss
the WALTER MCCARRAN Act and the California "Little McCarran
Act" (Proposition 24 on the California Ballot)

KRAMER read a written speech which had been prepared
by LLOYD MC MURRAY Civil Liberties Attorney, who had planned
to attend the meeting but was unable to make it. MC MURRAY'S
speech dealt with the Chinese Confession Program which was
set up to give Chinese who were illegally in the country
protection if they came forth and told their real identity.
The main gist of the speech was condemning the Immigration
Service because of their policy of sending illegal
immigrants back to China,

The "San Francisco Call Bulletin" issue of
November 18, 1957, carried an article which stated that
JEAN KRAMER had been ordered deported as an alien who
belonged to the CP. The article stated that she came
to the United States in 1933 and was a CP member from
1933 to 1948.

LLOYD MC MURRAY was an active member of the CP
in San Francisco from 1946 to 1950.

(SF T-8, 6/23/55)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SF 100-33836
FTD/1r

LAURENT FRANTZ, introduced as an expert in constitutional law and a writer and publisher, spoke on the Walter McCarran Act and said that the security of the nation is hampered by this act.

The "New York Guild Lawyer", volume 20, March and April, 1962, a self-described publication of the National Lawyers Guild, lists LAURENT FRANTZ as a member at large of the National Executive Board, National Laywers Guild (NLG). (See appendix Page for NLG).

ROSE CHERNIN, introduced as the Executive Director of the Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born from Los Angeles, said that the committee is fighting the Walter McCarran Act and will not register as a communist front group.

Other speakers who spoke in favor of a repeal of the McCarran Act included ROSCOE PROCTOR, HERBERT PHILLIPS, and FRANK WILKENSON.

WILKENSON also urged for the abolishment of the House Committee on Un-American Activities and the defeat of Proposition 24 on the California ballot..

HERBERT PHILLIPS is Chairman of the CCL.

(SF T-4, 9/25/62)

ROSCOE PROCTOR attended meetings of the CPUSA National and District Leaders held in New York City June 22 to 24, 1962.

(SF T-9, 6/29/62)

FRANK WILKENSON, according to an article in the "San Francisco Examiner of March 20, 1961, was convicted of contempt of congress and refusing to state before the House Committee on Un-American Activities whether or not he had ever been a member of the CP. His sentence of one year in jail was upheld by the United States Supreme Court,

(SF T-6, 9/24/62, SF T-10, 9/25/62,
SF T-4, 9/25/62, SF T-5, 10/3/62,
SF T-11, 10/1/62)

- 5 -

294


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SF 100-33836
FTD/ir

C. San Francisco Citizens Committee to Preserve American
Freedoms (SFCCPAF) (See Appendix Page)

Subject attended a meeting of the SFCCPAF which
was held at 750 Sanchez Street, October 8, 1952. Chairman of
this meeting was NORMAN LEONARD, and a discussion was held
regarding the activities of various individuals and groups
who were fighting for the defeat of Proposition 24 (proposed
anti CP registration) on the California ballot.

(SF T-10, 10/11/62)

NORMAN LEONARD is a currently active member of
the NLG.

(SF T-4, 3/22/62)

On November 10, 1962, Subject was present at a
party held at his residence, 881 Clayton Street, to
celebrate the defeat of Proposition 24.

(SF T-12, 11/15/62)

D. American Russian Institute (ARI)

The ARI of San Francisco has been designated by
the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to
Executive Order 10450.

Subject attended a public meeting sponsored by the
ARI held at the Pallace Hotel in San Francisco on November 30,
1952.

VINCENT HALLINAN was one of the speakers and he told
of his recent trip to Europe, including Hungary. He gave
some of the history and background and culture of Hungary and
said there was no democratic government in Hungary until
after the war.

- 7 -

295

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 23


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SF 100-33836
FTD/1r

HALLINAN said that the Hungarian people had some
legitimate complaints under *STALIN* and the revolution in
1956 was somewhat justified, but the Facists took over almost
immediately and they were responsible for the hangings and
other atrosities that occurred.

(SF T-4, 12/5/32
SF T-5, 12/3/52
SF T-13, 12/5/52)

VINCENT HALLINAN was candidate for president of the
United States on the Independent Progressive Party ticket
in 1952 (See Appendix Page).

E. "People's World" (PW)

The PW is a west coast communist newspaper published
in San Francisco.

The Subject attended a dinner for the benefit of
the Pw held at 81 Clementina Street, March 16, 1952. At
this dinner the Business Manager of the PW announced that those
present should sign petitions asking the President not to
enforce the McCarran Act. He also suggested a telegram be
sent to the President to protest the arrest of GUS HALL and
BEN DAVIS under the McCarran Act.

(SF T-4, 3/19/62)

The Subject attended a social affair for the benefit
of the PW which was held at 600 2nd Avenue, San Francisco, on
March 31, 1962.

(SF T-5, 4/3/52)

This social affair was sponsored by the Teamsters Club,
SFCCP, for the benefit of the Pl.

(SF T-14, 3/52)

- 8 -

296


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SF 100-33835
FTD/1r

A meeting of the committee to organize a book fair. for the benefit of the Pw was held at 31 Clementina Street, on May 3, 1962. A Business Manager of the PW announced that IRVING PROMEN had agreed to contact painters of recognized ability to display their work at this book fair.

(SF T-5, 5/21/32)

The Subject attended an art bazaar sponsored by the PW held at 31 Clementina Street, San Francisco, on June 22, 1962.

(SF T-15, 7/3/62)

The Subject Subject attended a bazaar sponsored by the Pw held at PW offices at 81 Clementina Street, San Francisco, December 8 and 9, 1962.

(SF T-5, 12/10/52)

F. Fair Play For Cuba Committee (FPCC) (See Appendix Page)

Subject attended a meeting of the FPCC held at 625 Polk Street, San Francisco, on December 7, 1952.

MARJORIE MORRAY, wife of JOSEPH P. MORRAY, a Stanford Professor, told of her experiences in Cuba in 1950 and 1961. She said she was a supervisor for English teachers in Cuba, and her husband was engaged in research at the University of Havana.

She said the United States State Department policy on Cuba was bad as it prevented good relations between the two countries. She asked for contributions to send medical supplies to Cuba.

The "National Guardian (NG)(See Appendix Page), Issue of November 29, 1952, lists JOSEPH P. MORRAY as a Guardian correspondent who spent two years in Havana.

- 9 -

297

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 25


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SP 100-33836
FTD/1r

WILLIAM WORTHY also spoke at this meeting, and he described himself as a reporter for an Afro-American newspaper in Baltimore, Maryland. He said he was sentenced in September, 1962, to three months in Federal prison for entering the United States without a passport. He said he had lost his passport when he traveled to Red China several monthe previous.

WORTHY said that the CIA is involved in every trouble spot in the world, particularly when Communism enters the picture.

WORTHY branded the United States as an imperialistic nation determined to undermine Latin American countries and bleed them of their natural resources.

He said that Cuba is showing the world what socialism can produce without the help of imperialistic countries.

(SF T-4, 12/10/62)
SF T-12, 12/12/32)

G. "National Guardian" (NG)

Subject attended a meeting sponsored by the NG which was held at 625 Polk Street on November 15, 1952. The purpose of the meeting was to hear a report on Cuba by JOSEPH P. MORRAY and SAUL LANDAU.

LANDAU told of visiting universities throughout the country and speaking of recent events in Cuba, he said he found hatred in the eyes of the students and felt at times as though they wanted to lynch him. He said that many educators feel that the right wing is getting control of the universities.

He also discussed life in Cuba as he observed it during his stay there.

- 10 -

298


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SF 100-33836
FTD/tr

SAUL LANDAU is editor and publisher of Studies on the Left (See Appendix Page).

(SP T-16, 1902)

JOSEPH P. MORRAY described himself as a former officer in Naval Intelligence, a lawyer and a former professor in Havana. He said that when the revolution in Cuba was started, the CP was against it and told CASTRO it was 111-advised, 11l-timed, however, CASTRO went ahead with the revolution and when the Communist saw he was accepted as the national leader, they joined forces and accepted his leadership.

MORRAY said the first president after the revolution was a conservative who demanded that CASTRO kick out the Communists and close the Communist papers. He also wanted appropriate compensation to be paid for land and factories which were nationalized. MORRAY said that CASTRO agreed only to pay the value which had been declared for these properties in their tax returns.

MORRAY said that CASTRO is a Leninist and disagrees somewhat with Communists. He said that the Cuban people are proud of being socialists and that CASTRO is in Cuba to stay.

He said he was skeptical about Russian missiles being in Cuba and decided that the Russians were trying to build a nuclear wall between Russia and Cuba.

(SF T-4, 11/23/52)

### III. MISCELLANEOUS

On October 27, 1952, the Subject was present at a demonstration held in Civic Center Plaza, San Francisco, California, to protest the blockade of Cuba by the United States Navy.

(SF T-4, 10/29/52)

Subject was observed at this demonstration by Special Agents of the FBI.

- 11 -

299


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SF 100-33836
FTD/1r

At a meeting of the San Francico County Committee of the SPCCP, it was brought out that it was the duty of the CP members to infiltrate church activities, and all Party people were urged to take part in the activities of the Friends Service Committee. IRVING PROMER and his wife, KAY, are active participants in the Friends Service Committee activities and in a Unitarian Church group which participated in past issues. This church group at one time had the sponsorship of the Unitarian Church, but this sponsorship was later withdrawn.

The FROMERS are active in these activities as part of the mass work for the CP.

(ST T-3, 6/14/62)

- 12 -
  300

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 28


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# COMMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL LIBERTIES
(CCL), aka. Citizens Committee for
Constitutional Liberties - San Francisco

A source advised on June 19, 1961, that MICKIE LIMA,
Chairman, Northern California District, Communist Party (CP),
reported on June 15, 1961, that the CP, USA, in response to the
Supreme Court decision of June 5, 1961, relating to the Internal
Security Act of 1950 had decided to create a committee known as
Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties (CCCL), 22 East
17th Street, New York City, and that a local committee would be
organized for Northern California.

This source advised on June 26, 1961, that a meeting was
held on June 18, 1961, at the home of ROSCOE PROCTOR, member of
the National Committee, CP, USA, for the purpose of formulating
the CCCL for Northern California.

A second source advised on September 14, 1961, that the
CCCL had opened an office at 942 Market Street, Room 401,
San Francisco, California, and that some of the furniture for
this office had come from the CP office on the same floor.

One of these sources, in March, 1962, advised that CP
officials in Northern California are active in supporting and
promoting the CCL and in disseminating its literature.

A third source, in April, 1962, advised that correspondence
and literature emanating from the CCL is aimed at the non-
enforcement and repeal of the Internal Security Act of 1950
(McCarran Act). Some of the literature disseminated is
purchased from the CCCL, New York, New York.

The two officers of the CCL in San Francisco are
Doctor HERBERT J. PHILLIPS, Chairman, and WALTER STACK,
Treasurer.

Doctor PHILLIPS testified in open court in 1953 to CP
membership since 1935. WALTER STACK is a current CP member in
San Francisco.

APPENDIX


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

1. 
CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL
LIBERTIES (NEW YORK CITY)

The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States House of Representatives, contains the following on Page 42 concerning "Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties (New York City)":

1. "On the basis of its investigations and hearings to date, the committee concludes that the National Assembly for Democratic Rights and a coordinating and organizing group in support thereof, titled the 'Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties,' are Communist fronts. Created, dominated, and controlled by members and officials of the Communist Party, the National Assembly for Democratic Rights and the Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties were organized as propaganda devices for the conduct of 'mass activity' in support of the avowed objectives of 'reversal or nonapplication' of the Supreme Court decisions of June 5, 1961, which upheld the constitutionality of the registration and disclosure provisions of the Internal Security Act of 1950 as applied to the Communist Party, and the Smith Act membership clause making punishable active and purposive membership in the Communist Party."

"* * * The long-range objective of the Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties is to serve as the vehicle for concealed Communist participation in, and direction of, propaganda and agitational activities aimed to nullify the Internal Security and Smith Acts."

"* * * Committee investigation disclosed that the Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties was formed on or about June 12, 1961 * * *."

(Committee on Un-American Activities, Report and Hearings on Manipulation of Public Opinion by Organizations Under Concealed Control of the Communist Party (National Assembly for Democratic Rights and Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties), House Report 1282, Part 1, October 2 and 3, 1961, pp. 137, 143 and 144.)

APPENDIX

14

302


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE, BAY AREA CHAPTER
also known as Bay Area Fair Play for Cuba
Committee (BAFPCC)

The "New York Times" newspaper on November 20, 1960, carried an article captioned "Pro-Castro Body Reports U.S. Gain," which reported that the Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC) had 5,000 paid-up members in the United States. The article declared that the FPCC had headquarters at 799 Broadway, New York City, New York, and had chapters in other cities, including one in San Francisco.

A source advised in March, 1961, that the Bay Area Chapter of the FPCC (BAFPCC) began to be formed in San Francisco in November, 1960, under the direct guidance and leadership of ASHER HARER, who the source identified as a member of the San Francisco Branch of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) and a member of the National Committee of the SWP.

The SWP has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

A source advised in May, 1962, that the BAFPCC is currently active in the San Francisco area and includes members in San Francisco and surrounding counties. He advised that the BAFPCC has no headquarters but receives mail through Post Office Box 2615, San Francisco 26, California, which is a box maintained by ASHER HARER. He stated that the announced aims and purposes of the BAFPCC are to "spread the truth about Cuba and to prevent U.S. intervention in Cuba."

A source advised in March, 1962, that in the recent elections of the BAFPCC, the SWP continued its influence by having SWP members elected to the Executive Committee.

303

APPENDIX 15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# BP 300-35030
# 700/17

1. 
FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE (FPCC)

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York Times" newspaper contains a full page advertisement captioned "What Is Really Happening in Cuba," placed by the FPCC. This advertisement announced the formation of the FDCC in New York City and declared the FPCC intended to promulgate "the truth about revoluntionary Cuba" to neutralize the distorted American press.

"The New York Times" edition of January 11, 1961, reported that at a hearing conducted before the United States Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on January 10, 1961, Dr. CHARLES A. SANTOS-BUCH identified himself and ROBERT TABER as organizers of the FPCC. He also testified he and TABER obtained funds from the Cuban Government which were applied toward the cost of the aforementioned advertisement.

On October 3, 1960, a source advised that the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) in New York had become active in the FPCC, and that SWP members, in a FPCC election, had been able to remove several Communist Party (CP) members who were on the Executive Board of the FPCC and gain control of the organization.

A second source advised that an announcement from National Headquarters of the SWP was made on September 24, 1961 to the effect RICHARD GIBSON had fired the secretary in the FPCC headquarters and was trying to break the SWP influence in the FPCC.

Column 2, page 8, of the February 22, 1962, edition of "The New York Times" contains an article captioned "Castro Backer Resigns" which announced that ROBERT TABER had resigned as Executive Secretary of the FPCC and as President of the Institute for the Improvement of Inter-American Relations, Inc., which had organized the FPCC in April, 1960.

On May 17, 1962, a third source advised that National Headquarters of the FPCC is located in room 329 at 799 Broadway, New York City, and that the FPCC is operating under the direction of RICHARD GIBSON, Acting National Executive Secretary of the FPCC.

The SWP and the CP, USA, have been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

APPENDIX

16

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 32


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

BF 100-33836

1. 
SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY - SAN
FRANCISCO DIVISION

A source advised on August 1, 1960, that the San Francisco Branch of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) was formed approximately in the early part of 1938 and the Oakland Branch of the SWP was formed in the latter part of 1938.

A second source advised on October 26, 1959, that the name of the Oakland Branch of the SWP was changed to the Oakland-Berkeley Branch of the SWP.

A third source advised on April 9, 1962, that the San Francisco Branch and the Oakland-Berkeley Branch of the SWP follow the policies and directives of the National SWP with whom they are affiliated.

The SWP has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

APPENDIX

305

17


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

1. 
INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE PARTY

The 1955 Report of the California Committee on Un-American Activities, page 46, stated, "The Independent Progressive Party in California was quickly captured by the communists, and by the time the Wallace for President campaign had swung into high gear was being operated lock, stock, and barrel by the Communist Party of California. Time after time the committee in questioning witnesses throughout the State discovered that the leaders of the Communist Parties in various localities were identical with the leaders of the Independent Progressive Party in the same area. It is true, of course, that in the Independent Progressive Party there were many sincere liberals who, because of dissatisfaction with the two major political organizations registered as Independent Progressives and continued their affiliation until the true control of the I. P. P. became obvious. These people invariably resigned, many of them having given the benefit of their experience to various official agencies interested in the exposure of subversive activities."

APPENDIX PAGE

18
306


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# BF 100-33036

# STUDIES ON THE LEFT (SOTL)

The "Wisconsin State Journal," a daily newspaper published at Madison, Wisconsin, on November 26, 1959 announded that a new scholarly magazine, "Studies on the Left," a historical review dedicated to the leftist point of view, edited by present and former graduate students at the University of Wisconsin (UW), but having no connection with the UW itself, would begin publication soon.

Records of the Wisconsin Secretary of State reflect SOTL was incorporated under laws of Wisconsin July 16, 1959 as a non-stock, non-profit corporation with headquarters P.O. Box 2121, Madison, Wisconsin. Three issues were published during the period December, 1959 to November, 1960. The first issue contained a policy statement of the editors stating SOTL was primarily a magazine for national circulation designed to give younger men with radical views a place to voice their opinions.

Publicly listed members of SOTL's Editorial Board SAUL LANDAU, JOAN BROMBERG, STEPHEN SCHEINBERG, MARTIN J. SKLAR and JAMES WEINSTEIN have been identified by sources previously as having participated in the activities of the Labor Youth League (LYL); while Editorial Board members DAVID EAKINS and MATTHEW CHAPPERON have been identified as active members of the Communist Party (CP). Another source has identified LANDAU and EAKINS as handling the finance and business affairs of SOTL.

The Communist Party, USA, and the Labor Youth League have been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.


# APPENDIX PAGE

19

307


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# NORTHERN CALIFORNIA COMMITTEE
FOR PROTECTION OF FOREIGN BORN

The "Daily People's World," now known as the "People's World," a West Coast Communist newspaper, of November 2, 1950, page 10, columns 1 and 2, contained an article entitled, "Northern California Committee for Foreign Born Planned." This article stated that plans for the organization of a Northern California Committee for Protection of Foreign Born would be made at a meeting on November 6, 1950, at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, California.

A source advised on April 25, 1962, that the Northern California Committee for Protection of Foreign Born, although an independent organization, carries out a program of activity in Northern California which coincides with the aims of the American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born (ACPFB).

The source further advised that the Northern California Committee for Protection of Foreign Born continues to be active in defending the foreign born in deportation proceedings and in securing support for the repeal of the Walter-McCarran Law.

The ACPFB has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

APPENDIX

20

308


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SP 100-33835

1. 
"NATIONAL GUARDIAN"

The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States House of Representatives, contains the following on Page 193 concerning "National Guardian":

1.  "established by the American Labor Party in 1947 as a 'progressive' weekly * * *. Although it denies having any affiliation with the Communist Party, it has manifested itself from the beginning as a virtual official propaganda arm of Soviet Russia."

(Committee on Un-American Activities, Report, Trial by Treason: The National Committee to Secure Justice for the Rosenbergs and Morton Sobell, August 25, 1956, p. 12.)

APPENDIX

21

309


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

#

1

## NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD
SAN FRANCISCO CHAPTER

A source advised on April 19, 1962, that the
San Francisco Chapter of the National Lawyers Guild, which is
affiliated with the National Lawyers Guild and follows its
policies and directives, was organized in the Summer of 1937,
and is currently active in San Francisco, California.



APPENDIX

310

22


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

## NATIONAL LAWYERS GUILD

The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States House of Representatives, contains the following on Page 121 concerning "National Lawyers Guild":

1.  Cited as a Communist front.

(Special Committee on Un-American Activities,
House Report 1311 on the CIO Political Action
Committee, March 29, 1944, p. 149.)

2.  Cited as a Communist front which "is the foremost legal bulwark of the Communist Party, its front organizations, and controlled unions" and which "since its inception has never failed to rally to the legal defense of the Communist Party and individual members thereof, including known espionage agents."

(Committee on Un-American Activities, House
Report 3123 on the National Lawyers Guild,
September 21, 1950, originally related
September 17, 1950.)

3.  "To defend the cases of Communist lawbreakers, fronts have been devised making special appeals in behalf of civil liberties and reaching out far beyond the confines of the Communist Party itself. Among these organizations are the * * * National Lawyers Guild. When the Communist Party itself is under fire these offer a bulwark of protection."

(Internal Security Subcommittee of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, Handbook for Americans, S.
Doc. 117, April 23, 1956, p. 91.)

## APPENDIX


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# SAN FRANCISCO CITIZENS COMMITTEE
TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS (SFCCPAF)

A source advised on April 7, 1960, that a San Francisco affiliate of the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms (CCPAF) had been established at a meeting held in San Francisco on April 4, 1960. The source advised that the San Francisco affiliate, to be known as the San Francisco CCPAF, would carry out in Northern California, the program of the CCPAF.

Source advised on April 17, 1962, that the San Francisco CCPAF is active.

APPENDIX

312


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS

The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States House of Representatives, contains the following on Page 43 concerning "Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms":

1. "The (Communist). party's front operations in the Southern California District today are * * * confined to four major organizations," which include the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms.

"The Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms * * * specializes in propaganda aimed at abolishing the Committee on Un-American Activities and discrediting the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Created in Los Angeles in 1952, the front organization is run by Frank Wilkinson, an identified Communist who recently resumed the full-time, paid post of executive secretary after approximately a year's leave of absence to assist in a similar campaign by another front in New York City, the Emergency Civil Liberties Committee.

"When the Committee on Un-American Activities held hearings in Los Angeles September 2-5, 1958, to inquire into the nature of the party's recent reorganization in California, the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms sponsored a series of public meetings to protest the hearings and the very existence of the committee. Communists subpenaed as witnesses were guests of honor.

"At this time, leaders of the party's Southern California District were mobilizing Communists in the area for participation in an intensified campaign to abolish this committee of Congress. How the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms served the party in this effort was revealed by (Communist Party) District Chairman Dorothy Healey in a report to the party's Southern California District Council on September 21, 1958. Mrs. Healey declared that the party preferre public protest meetings to be held by the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms rather than under party auspices because Communists could attend without danger of being exposed as members of the party. She also noted that Communists scheduled as congressional committee witnesses could not appear beforehand at openly Communist rallies without creating the impression that the party was conspiring with witnesses to withhold information from the committee."

(Committee on Un-American Activities, House Report 259 on the Southern California District of the Communist Party, April 3, 1959, pp. 7 and 8.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

![logo of Federal Bureau of Investigation]

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
San Francisco, California
March 29, 1953

Title LIVING RHODES PROKER

Character SECURITY MATTER -C

Reference Report of Special Agent FRANCIS T. DAVIS, dated and captioned as above, at San Francisco

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

314

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 42


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

EXHIBIT COVER SHEET

Exhibit Number: IX

SUBJECT: FARRER, David Reed
Sove Registrant
DOB: 21 July 1942, Chicago, Illinois

File Number: 7129-6003 564-50-8137

Preparing Unit: 115th MI Group ( 1 )

Agent Report Dated: 31 May 1967

Description: Report, SFO FBI dated 30 Mar 64 re SUBJECT'S father

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE
ON 10/12/97

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 4-19-96 BY 5668 SLD/KSB
(JFK)

Classification

315

ICGP-F Form 2-25
(Rev 25 Mar 66).

NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 43


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of: SA FRANCIS T. DAVIS Office: SAN FRANCISCO
Date: March 30, 1964

Field Office File No.: 100-33836 Bureau File No.: 100-365779

Title: IRVING RHODES FHOMER

Character: SECURITY ATTER - C

Synopsis:

Subject resides at 881 Clayton Street, San Francisco, and is employed as an architectural draftsman through the American Institute of Architects, 47 Kearny Street, San Francisco. Subject attended CP sponsored May Day meeting and ARI affairs. He taught class on Marxism and Art at San Francisco SSS, He attended PW bazaar, National Quardian affair and film sponsored by SFCCPAF. Attended mass meeting in San Francisco sponsored by CURT and took part in peace walk in San Francisco. Also attended meetings sponsored by the Continuations Committee of World Congress on General Disarmament and Peace.

DECLASSIFIED BY 5.668 SLDKSR
ON 4-19-96 IJFIE

DETAILS:

I. BACKGROUND

A. Residence

The subject resides at 881 Clayton Street, San Francisco, California.

REVIEWED BY FBVJEK TASK FORCE

ON 10/12/9784

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CHARLES TERSHEY, 217 Frederick Street - 3/4/64

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 44


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SF 100-33836
FTD/mal

## B. Employment

Subject continues to be employed as an architectural draftsman in the San Francisco area, obtaining employment through the placement service of the American Institute of Architects, 47 Kearny Street San Francisco.

Mrs. ETHEL SMITH,
Executive Director,
ΑΙΑ - 3/20/64

## II. COMMUNIST PARTY (CF) AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

### A. Communist Party

The Subject attended a May Day meeting sponsored by the San Francisco Free Speech Forum held at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, on May 4, 1963. MARGRIT FITTMAN acted as chairman of the meeting and noted that she had celebrated May Day last year in Moscow. She said she regarded this a privilege and honor and said that May Day in Moscow was celebrated in a spirit of good will and fraternity and should be celebrated in a like manner in this country. She said that some day everyone would live under socialism and there would be no more war and everyone would be friends and brothers.

ARCHIE BROWN, introduced as a well known labor leader and progressive, gave a speech critical of the city administration in San Francisco, and claimed that the slum clearence program drove under-privileged people from one slum area into marginal area which then became slums.

CARL BLOICE and several others then put on an entertainment skit prior to the introduction of HYMAN LUMER as a featured speaker. LUMER was introduced as an historian and economist and a Taft-Hartley victim.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

SF 100-33836
FTD/mel

LUMER discussed the unemployment situation in the United States, and said unemployment was increasing because of automation and he said the unions are worried and noted that recent strikes were for job security rather than increased benefits. He said that if the United States had a planned economy and traded with Soviet nations, most of the ills of unemployment could be cured. He also spoke briefly on repressive government acts and union busting legislation. He said the government is applying antitrust provisions to unions and there is a vicious prosecution of labor leaders. He said these acts are the products of the cold war and reaction.

A resolution to the President and the Attorney General was passed at this meeting which requested the government take action against the Birmingham Police Department for police brutality. At the suggestion of IRVING FROMER, they had a condemnation of the government for past inactivity to the resolution.

```
SF T-1 - 5/8/63
SF T-2 - 5/9/63
SF T-3 - 5/6/63
SF T-4 - 5/6/63
```

The San Francisco Free Speech Forum is a name used by the San Francisco County Communist Party (SFCCP) to present CP affairs which would not be identified publicly with the CP.

```
SF T-5 - 5/7/52
```

MARGRET PITTMAN is a member of the SFCCP.

```
SF T-6 - 5/63
```

ARCHIE BROWN is a member of the SFCCP.

```
SF T-5 - 5/63
```

-3-
318
NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 46


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SF 100-33836
FTD/mal

CARL BLOICE is a member of the SFCCF.

SF T-7 - 5/63

HYNAN LUMER has been listed as the editor of *"Political Affairs"*, a self-described theoretical organ of the CF, USA, since May, 1963.

B. American Aussian Institue of can Francisco (ARI)

The ARI has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

The Jubject attended a reception sponsored by the ARI held on April 26, 1963, at the Sheraton Palace Hotel in San Francisco, in honor of VICTOR ARNAUTOFF. The invitation to this affair noted that ARNAUTOFF was born in Russia, and had lived and world in China, Mexico, and the United States, since 1920. He was described as a member of the Department of Art at Stanford Universi since 1917, and it was noted that he was leaving for a year of painting exhibitions and cultural work in the Soviet Union. Among those listed as giving greetings and recognition of his work was IRVING FROMER, artist and chairman of the Graphic Arts Workshop.

The program at the reception consisted of entertainment including songs by one of FROMER'a sens, and by JAMES HOOD.

SF T-8 - 4/29/63
SF T-9 - 6/13/63
SF T-4 - 4/29/63
SF T-1 - 4/29/63

VICTOR ARNAUTOFF 18 a member of the Lan Francisco County Communist Party.

SF T-6 - 5/63

![image of scanned text 319]

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 47


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SF 100-33335
FTD/mal

JANE WOOD is a member of the CP in the Northern District of California.

SF T-11 - 5/21/63

The subject attended affair sponsored by the ARI held at the Sheraton Palace Hotel on November 24, 1963. This affair celebrated the 30th anniversary of the establishment of U. S. and USSR diplomatic relations, as well as the recent signing of the Test Ban Treaty. HOLLAND ROBERTS, President of the ARI, acted as chairman of the meeting and commented on the assassination of President KENNEDY, which he stated was a deliberate plan of the extreme right forces, those forces opposed to peace. He introduced the counselors of the USSR Embassy in Washington, D.C., who conveyed the condolences of the Soviet Ambassador and members of the Embassy to the audience on the death of President KENNEDY.

The main speaker of the evening, JOHN HOWARD LAWSON, said that he had spent the past two years in the Soviet Union, where he wrote a book and participated in the making of movies. He made a comparison between the moral decadence of United States youth and the healthy spirit of Soviet youth. He also tried to convey the impression that the late President KENNEDY had been slain by forces opposed to peace.

SF T-9 - 11/29/63

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON is a member of the CP in the Los Angeles, California area.

SF T-15 - 12/4/63

HOLLAND ROBERTS is a member of the CP in Palo Alto, California.

SF T-10 - in 1953


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SF 100-33830
FTD/ms1

C. Peoples World (PW)

The PW is a west coast Communist newspaper published in San Francisco.

The subject attended a bazaar sponsored by the PW held December 6-8, 1963, at 31 Clementina Street, San Francisco, California.

SF T-3 - 12/12/63

D. San Francisco School of Social Sciences (SFSS)
(See appendix)

The fall, 1963, bulletin of the SFSS listed IRVING FROMER as an instructor in a class on Marxism and Art held on Monday evenings from 8:45 P.M. to 10:15 P.M. at 345 Franklin Street, San Francisco, starting on October 14, 1963.

SF T-9 - 10/10/63

On October 14, 1963, FROMER conducted a class on Marxism and Art and recommended the class read a book on art and social life by PLEKOVOV whom he described as a theoretical writer of Marxist Socialism. He also recommended other literature by Soviet writers.

SF T-12 - 10/23/63

Subject conducted class on Marxism and Art on October 21, 1963, at which he discussed objective and subjective art. He also discussed WALT WHITMAN as a painter. He remarked that the American Art Board is composed of reactionaries like ROCKEFELLER and CARNEGIE.

SF T-1 - 10/28/63

321

NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 49


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

SP 100-338.360
FTD/nsi

Subject conducted a class of Marxism and Art
on October 28, 1963, at which class he showed still
slides of various art works upon which he commented
briefly.

SF T-1 - 10/30/53

On November 20, 1963, a meeting of teachers and
class representatives of the SFSS was held at 345 Franklin
Street, San Francisco, to discuss the program of the
school and plans for the future. The Subject was not
present at this meeting; however, his art class was
widely discussed and it was stated that there wore only
four students left in the advanced class. It was decided
that the course would be dropped in the next semester
because of the low attendance and the fact that the
course had nothing to do with Marxism.

SF T-2 - 11/21/63

On December 19, 1963, TERRENCE HALLINAN,
Director of the SFSS, announced that the school had
ceased classes until the end of January, and remarked
that IRVING FROMER's art class would be canceled due
to lack of attendance.

SF T-13 - 12/20/63

E. National Guardian (See appendix)

The subject attended a folk song jamboree
sponsored by the National Guardian held at 309 Fourth
Avenue, San Francisco, on March 23, 1963. The Subject's
son, JOHN FROMER, was among those who provided the
entertainment.

SF T-4 - 3/26/63

F. San Francisco Citizens Committee to Preserve
American Freedoms (SFCCPAF) (See appendix)

The subject attended a film showing sponsored by
the SFCCPAF held at the Hall of Flowers, Golden Gate Park,

![image]

NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 50


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

OF 100-33036
FTD/mel

San Francisco, on April 12, 1963. The film was captioned
"*The Un-Americans*" and depicted scenes from the San Francisco
riots held in the City Hall during an appearance of the
House Committee on Un-American Activities (HCUA).

At this affair, FRANK WILKINSON spoke on recent
bills which were introduced into Congress attempting to
do away with the House Committee on Un-American Activities.
He said the first bills were worked on by only six people
and at present they have a working force of 86 Congress-
men who are attempting to abolish the HCUA.

SF T-2 - 4/16/63
SF T-1 - 4/22/63

See appendix on SPCOFAF for characteri-
sation of FRANK WILKINSON.

G. Continuations Committee of the World Congress on
General Disarmament and Peace (CCWCODP)

Subject attended a meeting sponsored by CCWCODP held
at ILWU auditorium, 400 North Point Street, San Francisco, on
May 7, 1963. The featured speaker was former Brigadier
General HUGH B. HESTER, who said that after World War II,
the United States of America refused to negotiate with the
other four big powers on the disposition of Berlin. He
said now the big issue in the world is Berlin, and he said
it should be declared a free city under the United Nations
with a treaty guaranteeing the right to come and go through
Germany. HESTER said that he was in East Germany the pre-
vious year and the East German's are willing to make
concessions for the unification of all Germans. HESTER also
said that if the United States would take the trouble to
understand China, they would find that there is nothing
wrong with that nation. He said that China should be a
member of the United Nations and the United States should
trade with China.

SF T-4 - 5/8/53
SF T-13 - 5/23/63


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SF 100-30836
FTD/mal

The June 8, 1962, issue of the "New York Times" contained an advertisement revealing that the World Peace Council sponsored the World Congress on General Disarmament and Peace held in Moscow, on July 9 - 14, 1962.

The June 15, 1963, issue of the bulletin of the World Peace Council reported that the Continuations Committee of the WCODP had been founded by U.S. delegates to the 1962 Congress in Moscow.

See appendix for characterization of World Peace Congress.

II. Committee To Uphold the Right to Travel (CURT) (See appendix)

At a meeting of the Steering Committee of CURT held in San Francisco, on August 12, 1963, the list of sponsors of CURT was announced and included among the names of sponsors was IRVING ROLER.

SF T-14 - 8/14/63

On September 21, 1963, the Subject attended a demonstration held at the Civic Center Plaza in San Francisco, honoring students who had recently returned from Cuba. The demonstration was sponsored by CURT and several students spoke protesting the government's curtailment of the right to travel to Cuba. One of the students spoke and said the government should send troops to Birmingham instead of trying to prevent people from going to Cuba. He also noted that the capitalistic press had lied about Cuba, and the conditions were different than had been reported.

SF T-1 - 9/24/63

324
NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 52


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SF 100-33333
FTD/mal

The Subject was observed at the above meeting by Special Agents of the FBI.

I. Miscellaneous

The Subject took part in a peace walk held on April 13, 1963, from the Civic Center Plaza to Golden Gate Park, San Francisco.

SF T-13 - 4/19/63
SF T-8 - 4/16/63

325

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 53


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# COMMITTEE TO UPHOLD THE RIGHT TO TRAVEL

A source advised on August 1, 1963, and October 4, 1963, that at a meeting sponsored by Progressive Labor and held on July 31, 1963, at Stiles Hall, Berkeley, California, it was decided that a committee be formed in behalf of the San Francisco Bay Area students who had traveled to Cuba in June, 1963, in defiance of the ban by the United States Department of State on travel to Cuba. The name decided upon was the Committee to Uphold the Right to Travel (CURT).

The same source and a second source advised that CURT, a non-membership organization, has as its principal and main purpose the directing of publicity toward the thought of freedom to travel. In the event of the prosecution of the students who traveled to Cuba, CURT will become a committee to aid in their defense.

The first source advised that of the twelve officers elected, five are currently members of the Socialist Workers Party and one was a member of the Socialist Workers Party until July, 1963. The current members are:

SUE MATTINGLY, Recording Secretary
BRIAN SHANNON, Steering Committee
HAROLD VERB, Educational Director
TOM SANDERS, Steering Committee
RICHARD AOKI, Steering Committee

The former member of the Socialist Workers Party is JAMES PETRAS of the Student Committee.



APPENDIX PAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# 1

BAY AREA PROGRESSIVE LABOR, aka
"Progressive Labor"

A source advised on December 12, 1962, that in the latter part of 1962 a group of former members of the San Francisco County Communist Party (SFCCP), who had split from the SFCCP during 1960 over a factionalist dispute, had grouped together to support and further the aims of "Progressive Labor" and reportedly had allied themselves with the Progressive Labor Party, which reportedly has been organized nationally.

The masthead in the September, 1963, issue of "Progressive Labor," Volume II, No. 9, reflects "Progressive Labor" is published monthly by the Progressive Labor Co., G.P.O. Box 808, Brooklyn 1, N.Y....San Francisco address listed....P.O. Box 843, San Francisco 1, California....West Coast Editor: LEE COE.

A second source advised on February 28, 1963, that leaflets and invitations were distributed in San Francisco, California, by the above-mentioned group during February, 1963, under the name Bay Area Progressive Labor (BAPL), P.O. Box 843, San Francisco, California, along with the name of LEE COE as one of two signatures appearing thereon.

A third source advised on November 1, 1963, that LEE COE is active in BAPL activities in the San Francisco Bay area and appears to be one of its leaders.

APPENDIX

327

12

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 55


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

PROGRESSIVE LABOR PARTY;
PROGRESSIVE LABOR MOVEMENT;
"PROGRESSIVE LABOR"

A source advised on July 2, 1962, that Progressive Labor groups held a conference in New York City on July 1, 1962, where MILTON ROSEN acted as chairman. He read a statement at this conference setting forth their intention to form a new Marxist-Leninist Party in the United States. ROSEN stated that a more formal organization was necessary, one which would provide a framework for all who wanted to join in a united effort to build an American vanguard. The functions of this new organization are to consolidate all existing forces around Progressive Labor and organize additional forces; expand and improve political activities; win additional forces to an outlook of Marxism-Leninism and increase the open advocacy of socialism; develop a significant Marxist-Leninist program for the new party; and organize a collective organization of leaders and members.

"The Worker," an east coast communist newspaper, issue of January 7, 1962, page 10, column 3, reported the expulsion of MILTON ROSEN, former labor secretary of the New York State Communist Party, from the Communist Party, USA.

A second and third source advised in February, 1963, that this new Marxist-Leninist Party had not yet been organized on a formal basis but that Progressive Labor groups had been formed in several localities in line with proposals of MILTON ROSEN. The sources advised as of February, 1963, that the leaders of this group were referring to it as the Progressive Labor Movement.

The "Amsterdam News," a daily New York City newspaper, dated July 27, 1963, page 22, set forth that the "Progressive Labor Party is a new political formation based on Progressive Labor Movement, a Socialist organization with groups in all parts of the United States. The organization publishes a monthly magazine called Progressive Labor."

The July-August, 1963, issue of "Progressive Labor" set forth that it is published monthly by Progressive Labor Company, G.P.O. Box 808, Brooklyn 1, New York.

APPENDIX

328

13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY
SAN FRANCISCO DIVISION

A source advised on August 1, 1960, that the San Francisco Branch of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) was formed approximately in the early part of 1938 and the Oakland Branch of the SWP was formed in the latter part of 1938.

A second source advised on October 26, 1959, that the name of the Oakland Branch of the SWP was changed to the Oakland-Berkeley Branch of the SWP.

A third source advised on April 30, 1963, that the San Francisco Branch and the Oakland-Berkeley Branch of the SWP follow the policies and directives of the National SWP with which they are affiliated.

The SWP has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

APPENDIX

329

14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# 1

"NATIONAL GUARDIAN"

The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States House of Representatives, contains the following on Page 193 concerning "National Guardian:"

1. "established by the American Labor Party in 1947 as a 'progressive' weekly***. Although it denies having any affiliation with the Communist Party, it has manifested itself from the beginning as a virtual official propaganda arm of Soviet Russia."

(Committee on Un-American Activities, Report, Trial by Treason: The National Committee to Secure Justice for the Rosenbergs and Morton Sobell, August 25, 1956, p. 12.)


APPENDIX

15

330


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# SAN FRANCISCO SCHOOL OF SOCIAL SCIENCES

SAN FRANCISCO SCHOOL OF SOCIAL SCIENCES, aka
San Francisco School of Social Science,
San Francisco Marxist Study Group,
San Francisco School of Marxism-Leninism,
San Francisco School of Marxism.

A source advised on February 6, 1962, that the first
class on the San Francisco Marxist Study Group (SFMSG), was
held on February 5, 1962, at 345 Franklin Street, San Francisco,
California, and that the instructor of this class stated that
the main purpose of the SFHSC was to train young people for
leadership of the people in the event the U. S. wakes up to the
advantages of communism.

A second source advised on February 6, 1964, that the
San Francisco School of Social Sciences (SFSSS), which has been
known as the "San Francisco School of Social Science," "San
Francisco Marxist Study Group," "San Francisco School of
Marxism-Leninism," and the "San Francisco School of Marxism,"
concluded its Fall 1963 series of classes on December 19, 1963,
and would be commencing a new series of classes in the near future

The second source furnished the Fall 1963 Bulletin of
the SFSSS on October 17, 1963, which reflected that TERENCE
HALLINAN was Director, and KAROL BURKETT, Secretary, of the SFSSS.
The source advised that HALLINAN controls the policy under which
the SFSSS is run and consuits an advisory board of class
representatives only as to suggestions for future courses and
opinions as to current ones.

A third source advised on October 17, 1963, that
TERENCE HALLINAN was in attendance at a meeting of the Communist
Party, Northern District of California, Youth Commission held
October 14, 1963, at 100 Broderick Street, San Francisco.

The third source advised in December, 1963, that KAROL
BURKETT was in attendance at a joint meeting of the San Francisco
Communist Party Youth Club and the Berkeley, California, Off-Campus
Communist Party Youth Club held in San Francisco in December, 1963.

APPENDIX


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS

The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States House of Representatives, contains the following on Page 43 concerning Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms".

1. "The (Communist) party's front operations in the Southern California District today are * * * confined to four major organizations," which include the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms.

"The Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms * * * specializes in propaganda aimed at abolishing the Committee on Un-American Activities and discrediting the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Created in Los Angeles in 1952, the front organization is run by Frank Wilkinson, an identified Communist who recently resumed the full-time, paid post of executive secretary after approximately a year's leave of absence to assist in a similar campaign by another front in New York City, the Emergency Civil Liberties Committee.

"When the Committee on Un-American Activities held hearings in Los Angeles September 2-5, 1958, to inquire into the nature of the party's recent reorganization in California, the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms sponsored a series of public meetings to protest the hearings and the very existence of the committee. Communists subpoenaed as witnesses were guests of honor.

"At this time, leaders of the party's Southern California District were mobilizing Communists in the area for participation in an intensified campaign to abolish this committee of Congress. How the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms served the party in this effort was revealed by (Communist Party) District Chairman Dorothy Healey in a report to the party's Southern Californi District Council en September 21, 1958. Mrs. HEALEY declared that th party preferred public protest meetings to be held by the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms rather than under party auspices because Communists could attend without danger of being exposed as members of the party. She also noted that Communists scheduled as congressional committee witnesses could not appear beforehand at openly Communist rallies without creating the impression that the party was conspiring with witnesses to withhold information from the committee."

(Committee on Un-American Activities, House Report 259 on the Southern California District of the Communist Party, April 3, 1959, pp. 7 and 8.)

APPENDIX
18

332


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

SAN FRANCISCO CITIZENS COMMITTEE
TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS (SFCCPAF)

A source advised on April 7, 1960, that a San Francisco affiliate of the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms (CCPAF) had been established at a meeting held in San Francisco on April 4, 1960. The source advised that the San Francisco affiliate, to be known as the San Francisco CCPAF, would carry out in Norther California, the program of the CCPAF.

A second source advised on May 9, 1963, that the San Francisco CCPAF is active.

APPENDIX

17 333
NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 61


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# WORLD PEACE COUNCIL

The "Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications" issued December 1, 1961, by the Committee on un-American Activities, U.S. House of Representatives, page 179, contains the following citation regarding the World Peace Council:

Cited as having been formed at the conclusion of the Second World Peace Congress in Warsaw and which was heralded by the Moscow radio as 'the expression of the determination of the peoples to take into their own hands the struggle for peace.'

(Committee on Un-American Activities, House Report 378 on the Communist 'Peace Offensive, April 25, 1951, originally released April 1, 1951, p. 38)

APPENDIX PAGE

19*

334


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

FD-323 (Rev. 11-29-61)

![Department of Justice Federal Bureau of Investigation Seal]

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No. SF 100-33836

San Francisco, California

March 30, 1964

Title IRVING RHODES FROMER

Character SECURITY MATTER - C

Reference Report of SA FRANCIS T. DAVIS, dated March 30, 1964, at san Prancisco.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

SF 100-33836
FTD/ms1
(7)

335

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 63


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# EXHIBIT COVER SHEET

Exhibit Number: X

SUBJECT:

MRER, David Reed
Save Registrant
DOB: 21 July 1942, Chicago, Illinois

File Number: 7129-6003 504-50-0137

Preparing Unit: 115th MI Group ( I )

Agent Report Dated: 31 May 1967

Description: Report, SFO FBI dated 30 Mar 65 re SUBJECT'S father

REVIEWED BY FDJFK TASK FORCE
ON 10/12/77
RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR
ON 4-19-96 (JFK)

Classification

336

ICGP-F Form 2-25
(Rev 25 Mar 66).

NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 64


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:
SA FRANCIS T. DAVIS
Date: 3/30/65
Office: San Francisco, California
Field Office File #:
100-33836
Bureau File #:
100-365779
Title:
IRVING RHODES FROMER

Character:
SECURITY MATTER - C

Synopsis:
Subject resides at 881 Clayton St., San Francisco, and is employed as an architectural draftsman through the American Institute of Architects, 47 Kearny St., San Francisco. The Subject attended public meetings sponsored by the San Francisco Free Speech Forum (FSP), "National Guardian" (NG), American-Russian Institute (ARI), DuBois Club, and Committee to End U. S. Intervention in Vietnam. He also attended CP and "People's World" (PW) sponsored social affairs. Subject was arrested during racial demonstration at Sheraton-Palace Hotel, San Francisco, on 3/1/64. He was also observed in a picket line at a meeting of the Citizens Councils of America.

DETAILS:

## I. BACKGROUND

### A. Residence and Employment

The Subject resides at 881 Clayton Street,
San Francisco, and is employed as an architectural draftsman through the American Institute of Architects, 47 Kearny Street, San Francisco.

![FBI information redacted]

CHARLES TERSHEY, 217 Frederick
Street, San Francisco, 3/23/65

![FBI information redacted]

337

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 65


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

SF 100-33836
FTD/evs

## II. COMMUNIST PARTY (CP) AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

### A. Communist Activities

The Subject attended a May Day meeting held at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, which was sponsored by the San Francisco Free Speech Forum on May 2, 1964.

The San Francisco Free Speech Forum is a name used by the CP of San Francisco to hold public meetings.

STEVE MURDOCK, editor of the "PW" reviewed the activities of the "PW" for the past year and pointed out that the "PW" offered its readers news from the view-point of the working class and Negro people and really had something to offer and this had enabled it to survive.

ROSCOE PROCTOR also spoke on the problems of the Negro people in the capitalistic society and noted that only socialism offered the Negro any chance of solving his problems. PROCTOR said that the President's "War Against Poverty" was simply a political scheme to attract votes.

The featured speaker was ROBERT THOMPSON, a member of the CP Committee, who discussed the split between the Soviet Union and China and said that it would soon be healed over. THOMPSON told the audience that they should support the Democratic Administration while at the same time put pressure on the Democratic Party to end defacto segregation in schools throughout the country. THOMPSON noted that public school systems would have to be integrated in order to survive.

SF T-1, 5/7/64, SP T-2, 5/4/64,
SF T-3, 5/7/64, SF T-5, 5/4/64

The "PW" is a West Coast communist newspaper published in San Francisco.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

SF 100-33836
FTD/evs

ROSCOE PROCTOR attended a meeting of
the CP, USA, national and district
leaders, held in New York City on
June 22-24, 1962.

SF T-4, 6/29/62

On June 27, 1964, the Subject attended a social
affair sponsored by the Maritime Club, San Francisco CP,
at 1027 Brussels Street, San Francisco. Proceeds of this
social affair went for the benefit of the "PW".

SF T-5, 7/2/64

On September 25, 1964, the Subject attended a
public meeting sponsored by the San Francisco FSF held
at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco. The purpose of
this meeting was to hear HENRY WINSTON, a member of the
CP National Committee, speak.

WINSTON identified himself as a communist and
told of his imprisonment by the Federal Government. He
said that because the government would not treat him for
his illness, he became blind. He said the reason for the
government's refusal to treat him was because he was a
Negro and a communist.

WINSTON pointed out that the Republican Party
must be defeated even though he did not completely approve
of President JOHNSON and the Democratic Party. WINSTON
also discussed the civil rights movement and said that the
Negro must get his rights before everything in this
country would be all right.

SF T-2, 9/29/64, SF T-5, 10/2/64,
SF T-6, 9/28/64

B. "People's World" (PW)

On April 12, 1964, the Subject attended a din-
ner held for the benefit of the "PW" at 1581 Masonic
Street, San Francisco.

SF T-5, 4/13/64

3339


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

SF 100-33836
FTD/evs

C. "National Guardian" (NG)

A characterization of the NG is contained in the appendix pagen.

On February 8, 1964, the Subject attended a public meeting sponsored by the NG held at 625 Polk Street, San Francisco. The featured speaker at this meeting was MARK LANE, an attorney for the mother of LEE HARVEY OSWALD,

LANE discussed the background of the assassination of President KENNEDY and stressed the fact that Dallas was a very reactionary city and for that reason it is easy to understand why Dallas had been selected as the place for the President to be assassinated. LANE discussed briefly the background of LEE HARVEY OSWALD and noted that he was a drifter without any ties who had spent some time in the Soviet Union. LANE tried to establish a link between OSWALD and the FBI and indicated that OSWALD was the victim of a frameup. He said he had a reputation of being an unstable character and a past association with left-wing groups. LANE said that in spite of this he did not believe that OSWALD was the actual assassin of the President.

SF T-1, 2/12/64

D. W.E.B. DuBois Club of San Francisco

A characterization of the W.E.B. DuBois Club of San Francisco is contained in the appendix.

On August 20, 1964, Subject attended a meeting sponsored by the W.E.B. DuBois Club held at 1007 McAllister Street, San Francisco. The meeting was a panel discussion on the question of world peace. One of the speakers took the viewpoint of the Chinese Marxist and said he believed in revolution because this was the only way of eliminating capitalist enterprises and capitalist economy. He cited


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

SF 100-33836
FTD/evs

such areas as Cuba, Vietnam, the Soviet Union and China. He said that all of these countries are socialist camps of one form or another and all are working for peace.

AL RICHMOND, the editor of the "PW", took the position that peaceful co-existence was a possible way to make some progress for peace without changing the economy of the country.

One of the other panel members spoke in support of peace but not in favor of any kind of violence. He pointed out that the left wingers comprising the CP, the Trotskyite Party, and the Progressive Labor Party looked toward revolution as an alternative for peace; however, he did not think that peace would ever be won by revolution.

SF T-1, 8/31/64, SF T-3, 8/27/64
SF T-6, 8/25/64

On October 16, 1964, the Subject attended a panel discussion sponsored by the DuBois Club held at 625 Polk Street, San Francisco. The three panel members were DOROTHY HEALEY, Chairman of the Southern California CP, VINCENT HALLINAN, a San Francisco attorney, and JOHN BURTON, a California State Assemblyman.

The Subject of the discussion was on the forthcoming election and what part progressive forces should play in the election.

VINCENT HALLINAN took a strong pro-Democratic Party attitude and pointed out that he, himself, had campaigned on a national ticket for a minority party and the result had been disastrous. He said they had wasted their time and money and energy and polled so few votes that he did not receive even one electoral vote. He stressed the fact that the Republican forces represented a step toward fascism and that at all costs, all decent people and all good left-wing people must vote the Democratic slate.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

SF 100-33836
FTD/evs

DOROTHY HEALEY generally agreed with HALLINAN
but pointed out the Communist Party's specific obligation
to the working class to provide good leadership. She
said the CP had only one chance of acting as a vanguard
of the working class and that was to be right in its sup-
port of political candidates. HEALEY also said the people
should support the Supreme Court and particularly the Court's
recent decision to reapportion state legislature.

JOHN BURTON said this was the first election in
which he felt free to accept support from the left openly
and he attributed this to a determination on the part of
the general public to defeat BARRY GOLDWATER. He praised
the DuBois Club for supporting him and he thanked the per-
sons on the left including the Socialist Workers Party,
the CP and others for their support.

SF T-1, 10/20/64

VINCENT HALLINAN was candidate for President
of the United States on the Independent
Progressive Party (IPP) ticket in 1952. The
IPP was formed in California in 1948 and
ceased to exist in 1954 when it failed to
get sufficient votes to remain on the
California Ballot.

A characterization of the IPP appears in the
Appendix.

E. American-Russian Institute of San Francisco (ARI)

The ARI has been designated by the Attorney
General of the United States pursuant to
Executive Order 10450.

On November 20, 1964, the Subject attended a
public meeting sponsored by the ARI held at the Jack
Tar Hotel, San Francisco.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SF 100-33836
FTD/evs

HOLLAND ROBERTS, President of the ARI, spoke about the great work being done by the USSR and the Soviet bloc for peace. ROBERTS said he always is inspired when he visits these countries and hears of their achievements to bring about peace and he is always disappointed on returning to the United States to find the war mongers holding the upper hand and keeping the people obsessed with the idea that they have to stay prepared for war against the communists. ROBERTS said the United States was constantly on the side of the landlords and money lenders of small countries throughout the world such as South Vietnam. He said these people only aspire justice for themselves and an opportunity to live in peace and comfort. However, they are ground down ruthlessly by native oppressors with the help of American troops and American support.

CARL BLOICE, a reporter for the "PW", also told of a recent trip he made to Eastern Europe. He said he found the East Germans consecrated to the task of being a socialist nation and cooperating fully with the Soviet Union. BLOICE said that East Germans now claim that America has succeeded to the position once held by fascist Germany of being the most reactionary and most militant country on earth. BLOICE said that communist nations now were in a position to defeat any non-communist countries in the event of military attack but he said this was the poorest way he could think of to bring about communism and he would prefer to see non-communist nations become communist through the means of logic.

SF T-1, 11/30/64

F. Ad Hoc Committee To End U. S. Intervention In Vietnam

A characterization of the Ad Hoc Committee To End U. S. Intervention In Vietnam is contained in the Appendix hereto.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SF 100-33836
FTD/evs

On May 9, 1964, the Subject attended a meeting sponsored by the Ad Hoc Committee to End U. S. Intervention In Vietnam held at the Hall of Flowers in Golden Gate Park, San Francisco. The chairman of the meeting who stated he was from Vietnam claimed that the war in Vietnam started with the French Government supporting an attack by South Vietnam against North Vietnam. He said the American military has taken over from the French in supplying arms and ammunition to the South Vietnamese. He urged the United States to pull out of South Vietnam and let the country be unified.

The film was shown entitled, "The War In Vietnam" made by the National Liberation Front of the South Vietnamese. Among other things, the film showed American helicopters being shot down and picket demonstrations in North Vietnam protesting American intervention.

SF T-3, 5/12/64

### MISCELLANEOUS

On March 1, 1964, the Subject was one of 123 persons arrested picketing the Sheraton-Palace Hotel in San Francisco for alleged discriminatory practices. The 123 pickets who were arrested were charged with contempt of court. These charges were dismissed on April 3, 1964, by Municipal Judge JOSEPH G. KENNEDY because the restraining order which they were accused of violating was faulty.

"San Francisco Chronicle" newspaper, 3/3 and 4/4/64, and San Francisco Police Department Record of Arrest Number 1901586.

On the evening of October 28, 1964, the Citizens Councils of America held a meeting at the Masonic Auditorium in San Francisco which was picketed by numerous individuals on the sidewalk and entrance way to the auditorium. Among those observed in the picket line was the Subject.

Observation by Special Agents of the FBI.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# 1

"NATIONAL GUARDIAN"

The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States House of Depresentatives, contains the following on Page 193 concerning "National Guardian:"

1. "established by the American Labor Party in 1947 as a 'progressive' weekly***. Although it denies having any affiliation with the Communist Party, it has manifested itself from the beginning as a virtual official propaganda arm of Soviet Russia."

(Committee on Un-American Activities, Report, Trial by Treason: The National Committee to Secure Justice for the Rosenbergs and Morton Sobell, August 25, 1956, p. 12.)

APPENDIX

9

345


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

W.E.B. DU BOIS CLUB OF SAN FRANCISCO,
aka DuBois Youth Group, San Francisco
DuBois Club, San Francisco DuBois
Youth Group, Student-Labor Alliance

A source advised that on January 31, 1963, the W.E.B.
DuBois Club of San Francisco held its first general meeting
at California Hall, Polk and Turk Streets, San Francisco,
California, at which time the aims of the club were put forth
as follows by TERENCE "KAYO" HALLINAN:

1.  Alleviate the Negro problem in the United States.
2.  Promote peaceful co-existence between the United
    States and Russia.
3.  Promote and encourage Marxist doctrines and to
    bring about a socialistic government in the
    United States.

A second source advised in March 1963 that the DuBois
Club was both conceived and originated by TERENCE HALLINAN.

A third source has advised that TERENCE HALLINAN
attended a Communist Party Youth Commission
meeting in San Francisco in October 1963.

Commencing in March 1963, the DuBois Club published
a newsletter entitled "San Francisco News and World Report."
In its first issue a "Proposed Statement of Principles" was set
forth in which the club's aforementioned aims were elaborated
upon. In the same issue the lead editorial in part described the
San Francisco DuBois Club as "...a group of young people who
are convinced that Sociaism is the only answer to the many problems
of our time and so find philosophical rapport with the life nd
thought of Dr. DU BOIS, nevertheless, we are weighed with humility
in comparing our goals and ambitions with the genius of his life
and work. As a source of inspiration, the figure of W.E.B. DU BOIS
is unequaled in Américan history, but as a standard and example,
we seem miserably lost in his shadow. We can only resolve that
we do his name no dishonor, and whatever we may accomplish should
be recognized as a supplement to his life work."

The November 25, 1961, issue of the
"People's World," a West Coast communist
newspaper published in San Francisco,
contains an article on page 12 reflecting

APPENDIX 346

10

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

that W.E.B. DU BOIS joined the Communist Party after applying for admission on October 1, 1961.

In May 1963, the first source informed that the "San Francisco News and World Report," although written and edited by members of the club, was run off on a mimeograph machine located in the offices of the "People's World;" however, in March 1964, this source advised that the newsletter was no longer mimeographed by the "People's World" because of the unreliability of the machine and, in addition, the name was changed to "The Insurgent" upon recommendation of one of the club officers who felt the new name sounded more militant.

The first source has also stated that commencing in May 1963, the DuBois Club had no permanent headquarters and used to hold its meetings at 307 Page Street, Apartment 3, San Francisco, California. In March 1964, this source advised that the club is currently active as a membership organization and has its headquarters at 1007 McAllister Street, San Francisco.

347

APPENDIX


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

# INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE PARTY

The 1955 Peport of the California Committee on Un-American Activities, Page 46, stated, "The Independent Progressive Party in California was quickly captured by the communists, and by the time the Wallace for President campaign had swung into hich gear was being operated lock, stock, and barrel by the Communist Party of California. Time after time the committee in questioning witnesses throughout the State discovered that the leaders of the Communist Parties in various localities were identical with the leaders of the Independent Progressive Party in the same area. It is true, of course, that in the Independent Progressive Party there were many sincere liberals who, because of dissatisfaction with the two major political organizations registered as Independent Progressives and continued their affiliation until the true control of the I.P.P. became obvious. These people invariably resigned, many of them having given the benefit of their experience to various official agencies interested in the exposure of subversive activities."

APPENDIX

348

12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

1. 
COMMITTEE TO END U. S. FOREIGN INTERVENTION, aka
Committee to End U. S. Foreign Aggression,
Committee to End American Intervention in
Viet-Nam (Ad Hoc),
Committee to End United States Intervention
in Viet-Nam (Ad Hoc),
Committee to End United States Imperialism

This Committee was organized as the Committee to End
American Intervention in Viet-Nam (Ad Hoc), March 29, 1964, in
San Francisco, California, at the instigation of and by members
of the W.E.B. DuBcis Club of San Francisco, a Marxist youth group,
which has promoted the organization's activities among the various
groups in the San Francisco area interested in peace and disarma-
ment. Its announced aims have included American withdrawal from
Viet-Nam, self-determination for the South Viet-Namese people and
adherence of the United States to the 1954 Geneva Convention.
Demonstrations along with the distribution of and exhibition of
propaganda comprise its program. A flyer advertising a forum of
September 15, 1964, in San Francisco on "World Wide Movements--
for Freedom" referred to "Cuba - Harlem - Congo - Viet Nam" and
listed the Committee to End U. S. Foreign Intervention as sponsor.
One of the two sources which provided the information on the
Committee's organization has advised that it is the same committee.
According to this source, on October 9, 1964, this Committee's
proper name is "Committee to End U. S. Foreign Aggression," but it
is a loose-knit organization and exactness of title or name is of
little concern to the officials and members. The other source
advised on June 28, 1964, that an Executive Committee of five
members was elected in June, 1964, but no new officers were other-
wise elected.

Another source advised on September 17, 1964, that the
original officers were JOHN W. THOMAS, Chairman; BEVERLY D.
RADCLIFFE, Treasurer, and MARGARET DRIGGS, Secretary. The
signature of two of these are still required for checks written.

One source mentioned above currently advises that no
headquarters is maintained by the Committee; meetings are infrequent
and poorly attended, ranging from eight to twenty members. The last
reported membership total was approximately twenty in June, 196.4.

APPENDIX

349

13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

2. JOHN THOMAS attended meetings of the DuBois Club of San Francisco on May 10 and 31, 1964.

When interviewed by Special Agents of the FBI on October 1, 1964, THOMAS indicated he was not a member of the W.E.B. DuBois Club and would not join any group until he found one that really helped the Negro people.

BEVERLY RADCLIFFE in April, 1964, was a member of the DuBois Club of San Francisco.

MARGARET DRIGGS, when interviewed by Special Agents of the FBI on January 25, 1955, said that her activities in the Communist Party (CP) began in the middle 1930s during the depression in Tacoma, Washington. She and her husband moved to Seattle, Washington, and were members there of the CP and the Communist Political Association (CPA). As a result of open criticism of Party functionaries on her part and on the part of her husband, she and her husband were expelled from the CP in 1946 with the proviso that after six months they would reinstate. She said that they did not seek reinstatement.

The CPA has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

---

APPENDIX

350

14 *


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

FD-323 (Rev. 11-29-61)

![Department of Justice logo]

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Francisco, California

March 30, 1965

Title IRVING RHODES FROMER

Character SECURITY MATTER - C

Reference Report of SA FRANCIS T. DAVIS dated and captioned as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

FTD/evs
(7)

351

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 79


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

EXHIBIT COVER SHEET

Exhibit Number: XI

SUBJECT:

File Number:

Preparing Unit: 115th MI Group

Agent Report Dated:

Description: Report, SFO FBI dated 14 Mar 66 re SUBJECT'S father

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 4-19-96 BY 56685LD/KSR JFK

REVIEWED BY FOWJFK TASK FORCE

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

ICGP-F Form 2-25
(Rev 25 Mar 66).

NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 80

Classification

352


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to: 1 - Secret Service, San Francisco (Class 3) (RM)

Report of: LEO A. SCHON Office: San Francisco, California

Date: 3/14/66

Field Office File #: 100-33836 Bureau File #: 100-305779

Title: IRVING RHODES FROMER REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

Character: SECURITY MATTER - C

Synopsis: Subject still resides 881 Clayton Street, San Francisco, and is employed as an architect-draftsman through the American Institute of Architects, 254 Sutter Street, San Francisco. No information has been received reflecting that Subject has been active in the CP during the past year. Subject was present at May Day meeting of the CP held in May, 1966, and he has supported activities of the San Francisco CCPAF and Women For Peace and he has participated in a number of demonstrations sponsored by the VDC and acted as chairman of a meeting of the Haight-Ashbury VNC.

DETAILS:

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668
ON 4-19-96 (JFK)........

## I. BACKGROUND

Residence and Employment

Subject still resides at 881 Clayton Street, San Francisco, and is employed as an architect-draftsman through the American Institute of Architects, 254 Sutter Street, San Francisco.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

SF 100-33836
LAS/sea

## II. COMMUNIST PARTY (CP) AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

### A. Communist Party

When contacted in March, 1966, confidential informants who are conversant with various phases of activities of the CP in the area of San Francisco in which Subject resides were unable to furnish any information reflecting that Subject has been active in the CP during the past year.

Subject, however, was in attendance at the annual May Day meeting sponsored by the San Francisco Free Speech Forum held at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, on May 1, 1965.

The San Francisco Free Speech Forum is a name used by the San Francisco County CP to sponsor public meetings.

The principal speaker at this meeting was GUS HALL, General Secretary of the CP, USA. HALL accused the administration of President JOHNSON of being dangerous and trigger happy, stating that our foreign policy is a cold-blooded war machine which would turn back history. HALL stated that Marines had been sent to the Dominican Republic on the pretext of protecting American lives. He alluded to the U. S. foreign policy as being imperialistic and said that the President is not receiving full support for his invasion of other countries and the U. S. will never be successful in these undertakings.

SF T-2, 5/4/65
SF T-3, 5/4/65
SF T-4, 5/5/65

### B. San Francisco Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms (SFCCPAF)

The SFCCPAF is characterized in the appendix hereto.

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 82


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

SF 100-33836
LAS/sea

Subject attended a public meeting sponsored by the SFCCPAF which was held at the First Unitarian Church, Franklin and Geary Streets, San Francisco, on May 7, 1965.

SF T-5, 5/13/65

C. Women For Peace


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

# WOMEN FOR PEACE, aka
Women Strike for Peace

The "Berkeley Daily Gazette," a daily newspaper of general circulation published in Berkeley, California, contained an article in the November 19, 1965, evening edition reflecting that in November, 1961, when concern mounted over radioactive fallout from nuclear testing, a group of women in Washington, D. C. started Women Strike for Peace. The idea spread rapidly throughout the country and now embraces 900 groups, including Women For Peace groups in the San Francisco Bay area.

These groups support programs to achieve goals such as:

1.  Continued disarmament negotiations.

2.  A strong and flexible United Nations.

3.  Planning now at state and national levels for conversion to peace-time economy and positive efforts to ease world tensions.

The women act as individuals and as a group, with specific actions suggested by individuals and groups from all over the world. Decision to participate jointly on any given suggestion is democratly arrived at by members of the Coordinating Committee. Effective cooperation with other peace groups is encouraged. Monthly Coordinating Committee meetings and general meetings, as warranted, are open to all and announced in mailings to members. There are no dues or membership forms nor conditions for membership.

To stir an awareness of the need for peace, Women For Peace encourage public education in peace obiectives at local schools and sponsor peace-oriented demonstrations and public meetings, newspaper ads, billboards, and candidates for public office. On the national level the group attempts to influence government officials by letters and conferences.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

SP 100-33836
LAS/cor

A public meeting sponsored by Women For Peace
at which Subject was in attendance was held at California
Hall, 625 Polk Street, San Francisco, on August 1, 1965.

SP T-6, 3/4/65

D. Vietnam Day Committee





NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 85


357


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

# VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE (VDC)

A booklet published by the VDC contained the following policy statement of the VDC adopted by the general membership, June, 1965:

The Vietnam Day Committee is a group of students, faculty and other members of the Bay area community opposed to American intervention in Vietnam, the Dominican Republic and wherever else it may occur. Revolutionary struggles for self-determination are sweeping the world today. American suppression of these movements, we believe, is immoral and a threat to the peace of the world. The Vietnam Day Committee is organizing non-violent direct actions, teach-ins, door-to-door organizing and other educational activities to oppose American intervention. We believe that the struggle for self-determination in other countries is related to the struggle for democracy in America--a democracy in which the people have the facts and the power to make decisions for themselves. The struggles in America against racism, poverty, and bureaucratic conformity are part of the same movement as the struggle against American militarism. We must build a New America and join with those people in Asia, Africa and Latin America building a New World.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

SF 100-33836
LAS/sea

Subject was observed participating in a picket
line of the VDC engaged in picketing General MAXWELL TAYLOR
at the Fairmont Hotel, San Francisco, on August 25, 1965.

Observation by
Special Agents of
FBI on 8/25/65

Subject was in attendance at a rally sponsored by
the VDC protesting U. S. intervention in Vietnam which was
held at Civic Center Plaza, San Francisco, on October 17, 1965.

Observation by
Special Agent of
FBI on 10/17/65

He was also observed present at another demonstration
of the VDC held in protest of U. S. policy in Vietnam at
DeFrenery Park, Oakland, California, on November 20, 1965.

Observation by
Special Agent of
FBI on 11/20/65

Subject acted as chairman of the Haight-Ashbury
Vietnan Committee meeting which was held at 22 Parnassus
Street, San Francisco, on December 1, 1905. Subject did
most of the talking at this meeting and explained how the
war in Vietnam started. He claimed that the U. S. had
offered the French the atomic bomb to use against the
Vietnamese during the French-Vietnamese War. FROMER
stressed that if the war had not ended in six months it
would lead to World War III and involvement of China and
the U. S. He said that it is up to individuals to bring
pressure on the goverment to stop the war in Vietnam.

SF T-1, 12/2/65

The Haight-Ashbury Vietnam Committee
has headquarters at Number 3, Riveli
Street, San Francisco, and is self
described as a neighborhood organization
with the purpose of opposing U. S.
involvement in Vietnam.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

SF 100-33836
LAS/sea

On December 3, 1965, Subject took part in another demonstration sponsored by the VDC which was held in protest of U. S. intervention in Vietnam by picketing the Fairmont Hotel, San Francisco, when Vice President HUMPHREY was registered there on that day as a guest.

Observation by
Special Agent of
FBI on 12/3/65

Subject attended a public meeting held under the sponsorship of the Haight-Ashbury Vietnam Committee at Nourse Hall, Franklin and Hayes Streets, San Francisco, on January 14, 1966.

SF T-5, 1/20/66

IRVING FROMER participated in demonstrations sponsored by the Haight-Ashbury Vietnam Committee protesting the war in Vietnam held in Union Square and in front of the Federal Building, both San Francisco, on February 5, 1966.

Observation by
Special Agent of
FBI on 2/5/66

8

360

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 88


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

SF100-33886

1

SAN FRANCISCO CITIZENS COMMITTEE
TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS

A source advised on April 7, 1960, that a San Francisco affiliate of the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms (CCPAF) had been established at a meeting held in San Francisco on April 4, 1960. The source advised that the San Francisco affiliate, to be known as the San Francisco CCPAF, would carry out in Northern California the program of the CCPAF.

A second source advised on April 27, 1965, that the San Francisco CCPAF is active.


361

APPENDIX

9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

SF100-33836

1

CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO PRESERVE AMERICAN FREEDOMS

The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States House of Representatives, contains the following on Page 43 concerning "Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms":

1. "The (Communist) party's front operations in the Southern California District today are *** confined to four major organizations, "which include the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms.

"The Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms *** specializes in propaganda aimed at abolishing the Committee on Un-American Activities and discrediting the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Created in Los Angeles in 1952, the front organization is run by Frank Wilkinson, an identified Communist who recently resumed the full-time paid post of executive secretary after approximately a year's leave of absence to assist in similar campaign by another front in New York City, the Emergency Civil Liberties Committee.

"When the Committee on Un-American Activities held hearings in Los Angeles September ember 2-5, 1958, to inquire into the nature of the party's recent reorganization in California, the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms sponsored a series of public meetings to protest the hearings and the very existence of the committee. Communists subpoenaed as witnesses were guests of honor.

"At this time, leaders of the party's Southern California District were mobilizing Communists in the area for participation in an intensified campaign to abolish this committee of Congress. How the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms served the Party in this effort was revealed by (Communist Party) District Chairman Dorothy Healey in a report to the Party's Southern California District Council on September 21, 1958. Mrs. HEALEY declared that the party preferred public protest meetings to be held by the Citizens Committee to Preserve American Freedoms rather than under party auspices because Communists could attend without danger of being exposed as members of the party. She also noted that Communists scheduled as congressional committee witnesses could not appear beforehand at openly Communist rallies without creating the impression that the party was conspiring with witnesses to withhold information from the committee."

(Committee on Un-American Activities,
House Report 259 on the Southern California
District of the Communist Party, April 3,
1959, pp 7 and 8.)

APPENDIX

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 90
10*


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

FD-323 (Rev. 11-29-61)

![Department of Justice Federal Bureau of Investigation seal]

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No.

SF 100-33836

San Francisco, California

March 14, 1966

Title IRVING RHODES FROMER

Character SECURITY MATTER - C

Reference Report of SA LEO A. SCHON dated and captioned as above at San Francisco, California

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

SF 100-33836
LAS/sea
(9)

363

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 91


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

EXHIBIT COVER SHEET

Exhibit Number: XII

SUBJECT: FROMER, David Reed
SSvc Registrant
DPOB: 21 July 1942, Chicago Illinois

File Number: 7129-6003 564-58-8137

Freparing Unit: 115th MI Group ( I )

Agent Report Dated: 31 May 1967

Description: Report, SFO FBI dated 28 March 67 re SUBJECT'S father

> [Figure] A stamp says "REVIEWED BY SOURCE TASK FORCE"

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 4-19-96 BY 5668 SU/105R
(JFK)

Classification

364

ICGP-F Form 2-25
(Rev 25 Mar 66)

NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 92


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - Secret Service, San Francisco
(Class 3)(Registered Mail)

Report of:

JOSEPH T. QUIGLEY Office: San Francisco

Date:

3/28/67

Field Office File #:

100-33836 Bureau File #: 100-365779

Title:

IRVING RHODES FROMER

Character:

SECURITY MATTER - C

Synopsis:

Subject resides 13 Rhonda Way, Mill Valley, California,
and employed as an architect for Hertzka and Knowles, 32 Fremont,
San Francisco, California. During 1966, Subject attended
two "People's World" functions, one Free Speech Forum and
one "National Guardian" function.

- C -

DETAILS:

> [Figure] Declassification stamp

> [Figure] REAPPRAISAL BY NYORK TASK FORCE stamp

365

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 DocId:34528578 Page 93


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

SF 100-33836
JTQ:jl

# I. BACKGROUND

## A. Residence

In October 1966, Subject reportedly had moved from his residence on Clayton Street in San Francisco to Mill Valley, California.

SF T-1
on 10/13/66

On March 15, 1967, Subject's current residence at 13 Rhonda Way, Mill Valley, California, was verified through the use of a suitable pretext interview with an attendant at a Shell Service Station, Reed and Miller Avenues, Mill Valley, California. This pretext interview was conducted by a Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

## B. Employment

Records of the San Francisco Retail Credit Association reviewed by Special Employee GERALD E. ROSS on March 21, 1966, reflect Subject employed as an architect for Hertzka and Knowles, 32 Fremont, San Francisco, California.

On March 22, 1966, through the use of a suitable pretext telephone call to the office of Hertzka and Knowles, at the above address by a Special Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, it was determined that Subject is currently employed here as an architect.

# II. EVIDENCE OF SYMPATHY
FOR THE COMMUNIST PARTY (CP)

On February 19, 1966, the "People's World" sponsored a 28th anniversary celebration at the Del Webb Townehouse, Eighth and Market Street, San Francisco, California. There were approximately 800 persons present. The main speaker was HERBERT APTHEKER. Subject was among those present.

SF T-2
on 2/24/66

366
- 2 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

SF 100-33836
JTQ:51

SF T-3
on 2/24/66

SF T-4
on 2/19/66

"People's World" is a West Coast
Communist weekly newspaper published
in San Francisco.

HERBERT APTHEKER is a member of the
National Committee CPUSA.

SF T-5
on 1/17/86

On September 25, 1966, there was a reception
held for MIKE GOLD, who was leaving his job as a colunist
for the "People's World". The reception was held at the
"Sun Reporter" Building, 1366 Turk Street, San Francisco,
California. Subject was among the approximately 65 persons
present.

SF T-3
on 9/29/66

In October 1966, Subject took out a year's
subscription to the "People's World". He gave his
address at that time as 13 Rhonda Way, Mill Valley,
California.

SF T-6
on 10/27/66

On April 30, 1966, a May Day meeting was held at
the International Longshoremen's Workers Union, Santa Haria
Hall in San Francisco, under the sponsorship of the
San Francisco Free Speech Forum. Subject was among
approximately 80 persons present at this meeting.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

SF 100-33836
JTQ:j1

The name San Francisco Free Speech Forum is the name utilized by the San Francisco County Communist Party to sponsor its public meetings.

SF T-7
on 10/2/64

Subject was among approximately 200 persons present at a "National Guardian" festival held November 20, 1966, at the Peace Center, 55 Colton Street, San Francisco, California.

SF T-2
on 11/25/66

For characterization of the "National Guardian" see appendix.


- 4 -

368

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 96


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

# "NATIONAL GUARDIAN"

The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States House of Representatives, contains the following on Page 193 concerning "National Guardian:"

1.  "established by the American Labor Party in 1947 as a *'progressive'* weekly***. Although it denies having any affiliation with the Communist Party, it has manifested itself from the beginning as a virtual official propaganda arm of Soviet Russia."

(Committee on Un-American Activities, Report, Trial by Treason: The National Committee to Secure Justice for the Rosenbergs and Morton Sobell, August 25, 1956, p. 12.)

APPENDIX

369

5*


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

FD-323 (Rev. 11-29-61)

![Seal of the Department of Justice]

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Francisco, California

March 28, 1967

Title IRVING RHODES PROMER

Character SECURITY MATTER - C

Reference Report of SA JOSEPH T. QUIGLEY, dated and captioned as above, at San Francisco.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

370

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 Docld:34528578 Page 98


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)