JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF.
Date : 08/20/98
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10002-10189
Page : 1
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 963-1008

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 05/24/66
PAGES : 46
SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT

VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE

SEDITION

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY

IVEY, RICHARD CLAYTON.

ANTI-WAR LEAFLETS

BAY AREA PROGRESSIVE LABOR PARTY

YOUTH FOR JOBS

REPORT
DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/02/97
OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI
COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 5 NOV 97


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1 - USA, San Francisco (RM)
2 - G-2, 6th Army, San Francisco (RM)
1 - NISO, San Francisco(RM))
1 - OSI, Travis Air Force Base (RM)

Report of: FRANK S. PERRONE Office: SAN FRANCISCO
Date: 5/24/66

Field Office File #: 14-207 Bureau File #: 14-2943

Title: VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE REVIEWED BY FBVJFK TASK FORCE

Character: SEDITION

Synopsis:
Source present at Berkeley Free Press during preparation of "soldier's leaflet". FBI Laboratory has determined that eight (8) additional copies of the "soldier's leaflet" were sent to military servicemen serving overseas by RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY. Witnessed handwriting specimens of IVEY obtained.

- P -

DETAILS:
The Vietnam Day Committee (VDC), 2407 Fulton Street, Berkeley, California, distributed a leaflet captioned, "ATTENTION ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL." The contents of this leaflet are essentially the same as the Xerox copies of the leaflet which follows, and the first paragraph begins, "The following is proposed text for a 4-page 8-1/2 X ll leaflet." A Xerox copy of the "PROPOSAL" which refers to the leaflet also follows.

The above-mentioned leaflet will also be referred to as the "soldier's leaflet".

In the "PROPOSAL", O.A.T. refers to the Oakland Army Terminal, Oakland, California.

![document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SF14-207

PROPOSAL:

1.  The VDC publish the attached leaflet or one similiar to it specifically aimed at soldiers.

2.  The VDC publish a similiar leaflet aimed at prospective draftees, which includes a section en ways of getting out of the draft, andC. O. information etc.

3.  One of the major themes of the 15-16 demonstration will be a position by the VDC urging soldiers and potential inductees to individually and collectively oppose the war.

4.  That the VDC, through its publicity. and through at least one public speaker make it clear that at the O. A. T. we will go beyond merely stating that we urge soldiers and potential inductees to oppose the war, but that we shall launch an active campaign of attempting to communicate with soldiers and potential inductees, trying to inform them of the criminal nature of the war and the reasons why we urge them to oppose it.

5.  That the VDC publically inform intellectuals, liberals etc. that we are urging soldiers to oppose the war, why we are doing so, and urging them also to oppose the war by refusing to participate in government programs, rejecting government research grants, etc.

6.  It is understood that the above program does not rule out stressing other major themes on the 15-16, or of launching other programs on that day.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SF-24 - 207

The folowing is proposed te... for a 4 page 3 x 11 leaflet. ... leaflet will also inclucie pictures, and at least 2 informational boxes. One of these will be divided into 2 colunms. The left giving definitions of war crimes and the right giving examples ofwar crimes. The other box will give information on the soldiers who have already refused to fight in Vietnam. Other material will be added if space permits. The layout will be large print - 2 columns with frequent subtitles.

You may soon be sent to Vietnam. You have heard about the war in the news; your officers will give you pep talks about it. But you probably feel as confused and uncertain about it as most Americans do. Many people will tell you to just follow orders and leave the thinking to others. But you have the right to know as much about this war a: anyone else. After all, it's you---not your congressman---who might get killed.

## WHY ARE WE FIGHTING IN VIETNAM ?

We are supposed to be fighting to protect democracy in Vietnam, and yet our own government admits that South Vietnam is a dictatorship. General Ky, the latest military dictator, is as bad as they come. - Insert here quote about Ky admiring Hitler etc. -

General Ky doesn't mean much to us; we're not even sure how to pronounce his name. But the South Vietnamese have lived under him and men like him for ten years. As far as they are concerned, we are fighting on the side of Hitlerism; and they hope we lose.

## WHO IS THE ENEMY ?

U. S. military spokesmen have often said that their greatest problem is finding the enemy. "The enemy" they say, "is everywhere." The old woman feeding her chickens may have a stock of hand grenades in her hut. The little boy who trails after the America soldiers during the day slips out to give information to the guerillas at night. The washerwoman at the American air base brings a bomb to work one day. "It is impossible says the military. "to tell who is the Viet Cong and who is the people."

And so, because the whole Vietnamese people seems to be the enemy, the military is taking no chances. They use tear gas---a weapon only used against civilian populations never against soldiers. They order American troops to fire at women and children---because women and children, after all, are firing at American troops. American fighter planes destroy civilian villages with napalm; American B52s are flattening whole regions. That is why the war in Vietnam is so often called a "dirty war."

When the South Vietnamese people see you in your foreign uniform, they will think of you as their enemy. You are the ones bombing their towns. They don't know whether yor're a draftee or a volunteer, whether you're for the war or against it; but they're not taking any chances either.

## FREE ELECTIONS

The Vietnamese would dearly like to vote the foreigners out of their country, but they have never had the chance. According to the Geneva Agreement of 1954, there were supposed to be elections throughout Vietnam in 1956, But the U.S. government was afraid that our man in Vietnam, Premier Diem, would lose. In fact, President Eisenw himself admitted that "Ho Chi Minh....80%" (Eisenhower quote). So we decided not to allown any election there until we were sure we could win. Diem set up a political police


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SF14-207

-2-

force and put all political opp. tion---Communist and anti-C munist---in jail. 1959
it was clear that there weren't going to be any elections, and the guerillas known as the
Viet Cong began to fight back. By 1963 our government was fed up with Diem, but still
wasn't willing to risk elections. Our CLA helped a group of Vietnamese generals to over-
throw Diem and kill him. Since then there have been a series of "better" military
dictators. General Ky---the man who admires Hitler---is the latest one.

## FIGHTING FOR DEMOCRACY

Your job as a soldier is supposed to be "to win the people of South Vietnam." Win
them to what? Not democracy. We keep democracy for ourselves---they get, military
dictators. What then? The American way of life ? But why should they care my more
about that than we care about the Vietnamese way of life? We can't speak their language
or even pronounce their names. We don't know anything about their religion or even what
it is. We never even heard of Vietnam until Washington decided to run it.
You are supposed to be fighting to "save the Vietnamese people from Communism."
Certainly Communist influence is very strong in the National Liberation Front, the rebel
government. Yet most of the people support the NLF. Why? Many of the same people
who now lead the NLF led the Vietnamese independence movement against the Japanese
during World War II and then went on to fight against French colonial rule. Most Vietnames
think of the NLF leaders as their country's outstanding patriots. In fact, many anti-
Communists have joined the guerilla forces in the belief that the most important thing is
to get rid of foreign domination and military dictators. On the other hand, very few
Vietnamese support the official government of General Ky. His army has low morale and
a high desertion rate.

## THE TOUGH GUERILLAS

The newspapers and television have told us again and agian what a brave, tough fighter
the Vietnamese guerilla is. Short of ammunition and without any air cover, he can beat
forces that outnumber him five or ten to one. Why do they have such high morale? They
are not draftees; no draftees ever fight like that. They are not high-paid, professional
soldiers; most of them are peasants who work their fields. They are not well-trained;
they can't even spare the ammunition for target practice.

Their secret is that they know why they are fighting. They didn't hear about Vietnam
in the newspapers; they've lived there all their lives. While we were in high school,
they were living under the Diem regime and hating it. Now American planes are bombing
their towns and strafing their fields; American troops have occupied their country; and if
they complain out loud, an American-supported dictator sentences them to jail or the
firing squad. Is it any wonder that they fight so fiercely?

## CRUSHING THE RESISTANCE

The war in Vietnam is not being fought according to the rules. Civilians are gassed.
Prisoners are tortured. Our planes drop incendiary bombs on civilian villages. Our
soldiers shoot at women and children. Your officers will tell you that it is all necessary,
that we couldn't win the war any other way. And they are right. Americans are no more
cruel than any other people; American soldiers don't enjoy this kind of war. But if you
are going to wage war against an entire people, you have to become cruel. The ordinary
German soldier in occupied Europe wasn't especially cruel, either. But as the resistance
movements grew, he became cruel. He shot at women and children because they were
shooting at him; he never asked himself why they were shooting at him. When a certain
town became a center of resistance activity, he followed his orders and destroyed the

966

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

14-207

-3-

whole town. He knew that SS men were torturing captured resistance fighters, but it wasn't his business to interfere.

## FOLLOWING ORDERS

As a soldier you have been trained to obey orders, but as a human being you must take responsibility for your own acts. International and American law recognize that an individual soldier, even if acting under orders, must bear final legal and moral responsibility for what he does. This principle became a part of law after World War II, when the Allied nations, meeting in London, decided that German war criminals must be punished even if they committed war crimes under orders. This principle was the basis of the Nuremberg trials. We believe that the entire war in Vietnam is criminal and immoral. We believe that the atrocities which are necessary to wage this war against the people of Vietnam are inexcusable.

## OPPOSE THE WAR

We hope that you too find yourself, as a human being, unable to tolerate this night-ma: war-we hope that you will oppose it. We don't know what kind of risks we are taking in giving you this leaflet; you won't know what risk you will be taking in opposing the war. Several GIs have already refused to fight in Vietnam and have been court-martialed. They have shown great courage. We believe that they, together with other courageous men who will join them, will have influence far out of proportion to their numbers.

There may be many other things you can do; since you are in the service, you know better than civilians what sorts of opposition are possible. But whatever you do, keep your eyes open. Draw your own conclusions from the things you see, read and hear. At orientations sessions, don't be afraid to ask questions, and if you're not satisfied with the answer, keep asking. Take every chance you get to talk to your fellow soldiers about the war. Demand to hear civilian speakers who oppose the war debate military spokesmen.

You may feel the war is wrong, and still decide not to face a courtmartial. You may then find yourself in Vietnam under orders. You will have to do some fighting-but don't do any more than you have to. Good luck.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SF T-1 furnished a copy of the "PROPOSAL" and the proposed text for the four page leaflet which would be "specifically aimed at soldiers."

SF T-1 informed on May 3, 1966, that he obtained the "PROPOSAL" and the proposed text for the leaflet from a table during the VDC membership meeting in Room 204, Engineering Hall, University of California, Berkeley, California, (UCB), on October 5, 1965. SF T-1 remarked he did not know who wrote or assisted in the preparation of the proposed text for the leaflet; however, recalled the proposed text for the leaflet was read aloud at the meeting by STEVE CHERKOSS. SF T-1 was unable to recall any comments made by CHERKOSS during his reading of the proposed text.

SF T-1 went on to say there were from 85 to 105 individuals also present at the meeting on October 5, 1965; however, since this was the first meeting of this type that he had attended, he only knew CHERKOSS who was introduced.

SF T-2 on October 10, 1965, furnished in formation which identified STEVE CHERKOSS as a current active member of the Bay Area Progressive Labor Party (BAPLP).

A characterization for the BAPLP is contained in the Appendix Section.

SF T-3 reported on October 8, 1965, that on October 5, 1965, a VDC meeting was held at UCB, and among topics dis- cussed at the meeting was the distribution of handbills for soldiers. Decision was made at the meeting, that the hand- bills would be given to soldiers at bus stations, at airports, and also, if possible, at the Oakland Army Terminal.

SF T-3 related on May 6, 1966, that the above- mentioned VDC meeting was a VDC general membership meeting; and the meeting place was held in Room 204, Engineering Hall, UCB. SF T-3 informed he did not recall if the proposed text for the leaflet was read by anyone, or who had knowledge of the contents of the proposed text. SF T-3 stated he recalled the following individuals whom he described as members of the VDC were present at the VDC meeting on October 5, 1965.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

2
14-207
FSP:jal

STEVE CHERKOSS
DAVID FRIEDMAN
FRED GIBSON
HOWARD HARAWITZ
MORRIS HIRSCH
LARRY LOUGHLIN
MARILYN MILLIGAN
JOANNE PΕΥΤΟΝ
JANET PUGH
JERRY RUBIN
VALERIE SILVA
STEPHEN SMALE
WINDY SMITH
LOUISE STAPLETON
SYD STAPLETON
JACK WEINBERG
STEVE WEISSMAN

Continuing, SF T-3 remarked that what he had previously referred to as handbills were identical with the leaflet, "ATTENTION ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL."

SF T-3 also remarked he could not recall any specific comments made by anyone during the meeting on October 5, 1965.

Inspector CHARLES O' MEARA, Intelligence Unit, Berkeley, Police Department, Berkeley, informed on October 12, 1965, that according to information furnished to him, DAVID FRIEDMAN was a member of the Steering Committee of the VDC. A protest demonstration was conducted at the Sea Wolf Restaurant, Jack London Square, Oakland, on February 12, 1965. This demonstration was sponsored by the Congress of Racial Equality. During the demonstration, DAVID FRIEDMAN was one of five individuals arrested by the Oakland Police Department. He was charged with interfering with a police officer. The charge was subsequently dismissed.

SF T-3 reported on October 25, 1965, that on October 23, 1965, one FRED GIBSON attended a Youth For Jobs (YFJ) meeting at

7

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

3
14-207
FSP:jal

59th Street and San Pablo Avenue, Oakland.

A characterization for YFJ is contained in the Appendix Section.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified FRED GIBSON as a member of the Community Work Committee of the VDC and also a member of the VDC Steering Committee.

SF T-4 reported in 1963 and 1964 that during 1963 and 1964, HOWARD HARAWITZ was a member of the Communist Party Youth Off-Campus Club, Berkeley.

SF T-5 on November 15, 1965, furnished a copy of a printed "Dear Friend" letter issued by the VDC which called for funds from the recipient. The letter identified MORRIS HIRSCH as a Professor of Mathematics, UCB, and also a member of the Finance Committee of the VDC.

The name of MORRIS HIRSCH appeared as a signer of a 1962 petition which urged non-enforcement and repeal of the Internal Security Act of 1950, which petition had been circulated by the Committee for Constitutional Liberties (CCL), San Francisco, and had been submitted to the White House.

A characterization for the CCL is contained in the Appendix Section.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified LARRY LOUGHLIN as a member of the Finance Committee and Staff Member of the VDC.

A review of the records of the San Francisco Police Department, San Francisco, revealed that LARRY LOUGHLIN, also known as LAWRENCE ROBERT LOUGHLIN (true name), was arrested

8

970
NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

4. 14-207
   FSP:jal

by the San Francisco Police Department on August 24, 1965, and charged with trespassing and resisting arrest. The charges arose from a demonstration against General MAXWELL TAYLOR at the Fairmont Hotel, San Francisco.

After LOUGHLIN had pled nolo contendere, he was sentenced on February 16, 1966, to six months in the San Francisco County Jail, Sentence was suspended and he was placed on one year probation.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965 identified MARILYN MILLIGAN as a member of the Community Work Committee and Staff Member of the VDC.

A review of the records of the Alameda County Sheriff's Office, Oakland, revealed that MARILYN MILLIGAN was arrested on December 3, 1964, under Sheriff's Office Number 641125 in connection with a sit-in demonstration at Sproul Hall, UCB. She was charged with resisting arrest, failure to disperse and trespassing. On June 28, 1965, she was found guilty of the trespassing and resisting arrest charges and the failure to disperse charge was dismissed. On July 29, 1965, she refused probation and was sentenced to $100.00 or ten days in jail on the trespassing charge, and $150.00 or fifteen days in jail on the resisting arrest charge. She has appealed the convictions.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified JOANNE PEYTON as a member of the Community Work Committee of the VDC.

A review of the records of the Registrar's Office, UCB, revealed the following information for JOANNE ΡΕΥΤΟΝ, nee JOANNE BARKER WARD."

White
Female
Born August 8, 1936, Cleveland, Chio.

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

5
14-207
FSP:jal

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified JANET PUGH as Chairman of the Publicity Committee of the VDC.

A review of the records of the Registrar's Office, UCB, revealed the following description for JANET MARILYN PUGH.
White.
Female
Born December 24, 1939, Red Bluff, California
Permanent Residence: 200 Cedar Street, Red Bluff

In the August 9, 1965, issue of the "San Francisco Chronicle", a San Francisco, California, daily newspaper, information was set forth that in the summer of 1964, JERRY RUBIN traveled to Cuba in defiance of a United States Department of State travel ban. The trip was sponsored by the Student Committee for Travel to Cuba (SCTC).

A characterization for the SCTC is contained in the Appendix Section.

SF T-6 reported on February 19, 1965, that JERRY RUBIN had enrolled for the fall, 1964, semester of the San Francisco School of Social Sciences (SFSSS).

A characterization for the SFSSS is contained in the Appendix Section.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified JERRY RUBIN as a Staff Member of the VDC and also a member of the Steering Committee of the VDC.

SF T-3 reported on November 1, 1965, that on October 30, 1965, VALERIE SILVA attended a meeting of Youth For Jobs, 59 4th Street and San Pablo Avenue, Oakland.

10
972
NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SF T-7 in February, 1952, identified STEPHEN SMALE as a member of the Labor Youth League (LYD) at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

The LYL has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

The LYL became defunct in February, 1957.

SF T-8 in January, 1961, identified STEPHEN SMALE as the Faculty Advisor of the Students Committee Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC), at UCB.

A characterization for the FPCC is contained in the Appendix Section.

STEPHEN SMALE has been publicly identified as a Mathematics professor at UCB.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965 identified STEVE SMALE as a Staff Member of the VDC and also a member of the Steering Committee of the VDC.

SF T-9 informed on November 15, 1963 and March 27, 1964, that in 1963 and 1964, WINDY SMITH was a member of the Southern California District Communist Party.

SF T-10 reported on February 25, 1966, that WINDY SMITH also known as JOHN WINDRIM SMITH, JR. (TN) was a transfer to the Marin County, California, Communist Party Club; however, had not attended any meetings of the club.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified WINDY SMITH as a member of the Strategic Research Organization Committee of the VDC, and also a member of the Steering Committee.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

7
14-207
FSP:jal

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified LOUISE STAPLETON as a member of the Community Work Committee of the VDC.

SF T-3 related on August 17, 1965, that in his opinion, LOUISE STAPLETON was not in sympathy with the VDC but was simply looking for "some excitement and likes to demonstrate." SF T-3 added that LOUISE STAPLETON was an employee of the Child Care Center in Oakland and resided at 419 63rd Street, Oakland.

SF T-11 in October, 1965, identified SYDNEY STAPLETON as a member of the Young Socialist Alliance, Berkeley, and the Oakland-Berkeley Branch of the Socialist Workers Party.

Characterizations for the Young Socialist Alliance, Berkeley and the Oakland-Berkeley Branch of the Socialist Workers Party are contained in the Appendix Section.

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified SYDNEY STAPLETON as a member of the Speaker's Bureau of the VDC and also a member of the Steering Committee of the VDC.

SF T-12 reported on October 11, 1964, that on October 11, 1964, JACK WEINBERG attended a general membership meeting of the W.E. B. Du Bois Clubs of America, Berkeley Branch.

A characterization of the W. E.B. Du Bois Clubs of America, Berkeley Branch is contained in the Appendix Section.

WEINBERG was arrested at UCB in connection with a sit-in demonstration at Sproul Hall on December 3, 1964. He was charged with trespassing, and resisting arrest; convicted, and on July 30, 1965, he was sentenced to serve 120 days in jail.

974
12
NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SF T-3 on September 9, 1965, identified
STEVE WEISSMAN as Chairman of the Strategic
Research Organization Committee of the VDC.

SF T-8 has informed that STEVE WEISSMAN,
also known as STEPHEN MARK WEISSMAN (true
name), held a Bachelor of Arts Degree from
the University of Tampa and a Master of
Arts Degree from the University of Michigan.
He enrolled at UCB as a graduate student
for the fall semester, 1964. He was a
strategist for the Free Speech Movement
(FSM) demonstrations during the latter part
of 1964 on the UCB Campus. He organized
a strike of teaching assistants at UCB in
support of the FSM.

The FSM was an organization whien evolved
at UCB out of a disagreement between students
and UCB administration of UCB policy regard-
ing campus organizations.

WEISSMAN, according to his academic file
at Tampa University, December 9, 1964,
had a history of self-admitted emotional
instability for which he had been under
psycho-therapy treatment fro October, 1958
to January, 1960. His father informed
in April, 1965, that his son was not a
Marxist; had no Communist leanings what-
soever and considered the United States
the best country in the world, but one
which still needed improvement.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

1
SF 14-207
FSP:mb

SF T-13 reported on November 1, 1965, that at a general membership meeting of the VDC on October 26, 1965, in Room 204, Engineering Building, UCB, there was a vote which was subsequently set aside to distribute the leaflet, "ATTENTION ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL."

A review of all information furnished by SF T-13 failed to reveal any information indicating who conducted the above-described meeting, or when, where or to whom the leaflets would be distributed.

SF T-13 is currently employed in a foreign country, and there is no information indicating whether he will return to the United States in the near future.

SF T-14 reported on May 6, 1966, he was unable to recall who conducted the VDC general membership meeting in Room 204, Engineering Building, UCB, on October 26, 1965, or if mention was made when, where, or to whom the "soldier's leaflet would be distributed.

SF T-3 informed on May 6, 1966, that the VDC general membership meeting which was held in Room 204, Engineering Building, UCB, was chaired by SYDNEY STAPLETON. SF T-3 recalled that the persons attending the meeting voted on a decision to distribute the "soldier's leaflet"; however, the majority vote postponed action on the leaflets until a later meeting. SF T-3 also recalled that JACK KURZWEIL, BOB KAUFMAN, and (CONN) RINGO" HALLINAN informed those present that the leaflets should be distributed to civilians rather than to soldiers.

SF T-3 commented he had no knowledge as to when, where, or to whom the leaflets may have been distributed.

SF T-15 reported in October 1965, that as of September 1965, JACK WEINBERG was a member of the Steering Committee of the VDC.

SF T-12 informed on October 9, 1964, that on October 11, 1964, JACK WEINBERG attended a general membership meeting of the W.E.B. Du Bois Club of America, Berkeley Branch.

14

976
NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

2
SF 14-207
FSP:mb

WEINBERG was arrested at UCB in connection with a sit-in demonstration at Sproul Hall on December 3, 1964. He was charged with trespassing and resisting arrest; convicted, and on July 30, 1965, he was sentenced to serve 120 days in jail.

SF T-16 reported on July 19, 1965, that on July 10, 1965, ROBERT KAUFMAN attended a Northern California District Communist Party meeting in San Francisco.

SF T-17 reported on April 19, 1966, that as of November 1965, CONN "RINGO" HALLINAN was a member of a Communist Party (CP) Club in San Francisco.

Sergeant DAHL informed on January 10, 1966, that he had received a report from his previously described source that at the VDC general membership meeting in Room 204, Engineering Hall, UCB, on October 26, 1965, WINDY SMITH gave the majority report and recommended the VDC approve and distribute the "soldier's leaflet" to anyone, but mainly to U.S. servicemen preparing to go to Vietnam. In addition, SMITH commented at the meeting that 4,000 of the "soldier's leaflets" had been sent to the National Liberation Front, 6,000 had been distributed at Fort Ord, California, 2,000 at a military installation at Point Mugu, California, and many at the Army Intelligence School in Monterey, California.

SF T-14 related on May 6, 1966, that at the VDC general membership meeting in Room 204, Engineering Hall, UCB, on October 26, 1965, WINDY SMITH, who delivered the majority report, recommended that the leaflets be distributed, and MIKE O'HANLON, STEVE WEISSMAN and STEVE SMALE opposed the distribution, SF T-14 could furnish no additional information.

On January 5, 1966, Deputy Sheriff JOHN CRISAN, Monterey County, California Sheriff's Office, furnished some membership cards issued to MICHAEL J. O'HANLON, which he had obtained from a forest ranger at the Big Sur Park in December 1965. CRISAN stated he had no further

15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

3
SF 14-207
FSP:mb

information concerning O'HANLON, and assumed the cards were membership cards signed by O'HANLON for the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), Students for a Democratic Society (SDS), and the VDC.

The IWW has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

"STUDENTS FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY is an association of young people on the left...; one bringing together liberals and radicals, activists and scholars, students and faculty. It feels the urgency to put forth a radical, democratic program counterposed to authoritian movements both of Communism and the domestic Right."

*Preamble, SDS Constitution*

During the 1965 National Convention of the SDS, the Preamble of the Constitution was amended to eliminate "counterposed to authoritarian movements both of Communism and the domestic Right."

SDS Worklist No. 14,
7/28/65

When O'HANLON was stopped by a Highway Patrol Officer on February 18, 1966, in Ocala, Florida, O'HANLON had a membership card for the W.E.B. Du Bois Clubs of America (DCA).

A characterization for the DCA is contained in the Appendix.

The FBI Laboratory informed on February 17, 1966, that fingerprint examinations revealed MICHAEL J. O'HANLON was identical with FRANCIS GEORGE MEDAILLE, FBI Number 874 775C.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

4
SF 14-207
FSP:mb

In the March 20, 1966, issue of the "San Francisco Examiner", a San Francisco, California, daily newspaper, information was set forth that FRANCIS GEORGE MEDAILLE was arrested in 1958 on a homicide charge in New York for throwing a six-year old girl from the roof of a building. MEDAILLE was sent to a mental institution until May 5, 1963, when he pled guilty to a manslaughter charge, first degree. He received a five-to-ten year suspended sentence and was placed on five years probation.

RICHARD D. CALLAHAN, Special Agent, Chief of Special Operations Section, 115th INTC, Presidio, California, on January 7, 1966, made available a file pertaining to the appearance of the leaflet in the vicinity of Fort Ord. A review of the file revealed a report concerning an interview with A. C. COULAPIELES, Lieutenant, U. S. Navy 636. Security Officer, U.S. Naval Postgraduate School (USNPS), Monterey. Lieutenant COULAPIELES informed on October 26, 1965, that during the morning hours of October 23, 1965, members of his cleanup detail at USNPS informed him that a number of VDC leaflets addressed, "ATTENTION ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL" had been scattered at various points within the USNPS area. The report related a subsequent inspection of the area by the cleanup detail indicated leaflets had been dropped from outside the fence line at various points. The report further informed that the number of leaflets dropped was small.

Mr. CALLAHAN related inasmuch as the investigation revealed the leaflets were dropped from outside the fence on military property, no further investigation was conducted by the military authorities.. USNPS is approximately three miles from Fort Ord.

In addition, Mr. CALLAHAN recalled information indicating copies of the leaflet had been reported as appearing on the cement divider on the main highway between Marina and Monterey, California. Mr. CALLAHAN added that part of this highway runs adjacent to Fort Ord.

EDWARD MURPHY, NISO, 1lth Naval District, San Diego,

17


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

5
SF 14-207
FSP:mb

informed on February 2, 1966, he had received no information
indicating that the "soldier's leaflet" had been distributed at
Point Mugu. He added if the leaflet had been distributed at
Point Mugu, he was certain his office would have received informa-
tion concerning the distribution.

SF T-18 informed on May 16, 1966, that he remembered on
one occasion during a discussion of the leaflet at VDC headquarters
2407 Fulton Street, Berkeley, JOHN SELTZ remarked that he, SELTZ,
was one of the passengers in a speeding automobile from which
leaflets were thrown at Fort Ord and the Presidio at Monterey.
SF T-18 commented he had no knowledge as to whether any of the
leaflets were actually picked up by soldiers. SF T-18 believed
the discussion took place during the last quarter of 1965.

JOHN CLIFFORD NORDEEN, 9125 Marmora Avenue,
Morton Grove, Illinois, a self-described friend
of JOHN PETER SELTZ, had informed that SELTZ
served under one ALEJANDRO MARTINEZ, leader of
an anti-Somoza Nicaraguan revolutionary group,
on the Honduras-Nicaraguan border during May
and June 1960.

SF T-3 related on May 6, 1966, he recalled there was a
discussion regarding leaflets which were supposedly distributed
to soldiers at Fort Ord; however, he could furnish no specifics.

Sergeant CARL DAHL had related on January 10, 1966,
that according to his previously described source, at the VDC
meeting on October 26, 1965, in Room 204, Engineering Building,
UCB, STEVE WEISSMAN made the following remark:

"Our lawyers have informed us if we stop now
distributing this leaflet it is less likely
any of us would be prosecuted, but if we
continue, we are asking for arrest for
sedition."

SF T-14 related on May 6, 1966, that he recalled STEVE
WEISSMAN making the above-quoted statement at the VDC meeting on
October 26, 1965.

SF T-3 informed on May 6, 1966, that he could not recall

980

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 19
18


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

6
SF 14-207
FSP:mb

STEVE WEISSMAN making the above-quoted statement at the VDC meeting on October 26, 1965.

SF T-18 related on October 25, 1965, that on October 23, 1965, the VDC Anti-Draft Committee held a meeting at VDC headquarters, 2407 Fulton Street, Berkeley. SF T-18 related that at the meeting, STEVE CHERKOSS admitted being a "Communist" and stated those active in the organization should face up to the fact and accept that Communists were in the anti-draft movement on a national scale.

SF T-18 related on May 16, 1966, that he recalled WINDY SMITH and JOHN SELTZ were also present at the above-mentioned meeting. SF T-18 went on to say that SMITH left the meeting early. SF T-18 did not recall that anyone at the meeting of October 23, 1965 mentioned the Oakland Induction Center specifically as a distribution point for the "soldier's leaflet." SF T-18 was unable to recall the names of anyone known to him at the meeting of October 23, 1965, who led and/or took part in any discussion concerning the undermining of the morale of U.S. troops or anything said by any individual at the meeting in this regard.

SF T-18 did recall that the "soldier's leaflet" was distributed at the Oakland Induction Center one morning. He believed this occurred in October 1965, but was unable to recall the exact date. SF T-18 recalled STEVE CHERKOSS was present and was distributing the leaflets at the Oakland Induction Center on the morning in question. SF T-18 added he was also present at the Oakland Induction Center on the particular morning; however, he did not distribute any of the leaflets.

A review of the printed leaflet, "ATTENTION ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL" indicated it was printed by the Berkeley Free Press.

SF T-18 informed on May 16, 1966, that the Berkeley Free Press did, in fact, print the leaflet, "ATTENTION ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL." SF T-18 went on to say he was present at the Berkeley Free Press, along with two other individuals and a couple of printers from the Berkeley Free Press who were unknown to him when approximately 30,000 copies of the leaflets were printed. SF T-18 added that he helped cut the paper at the Berkeley Free Press for the leaflets.

19


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

7
SF 14-207
FSP:mb

Sergeant CARL DAHL had related on January 10, 1966, that according to his previously described source in the VDC, the "soldier's leaflet" was primarily the work of MARVIN GARSON and JACK WEINBERG, and had been proofread by ROBERT SCHEER.

SF T-ll reported during April 1963, that MARVIN THOMAS GARSON had been active in the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA) in Berkeley, while attending UCB, and had served as an officer of the organization.

SF T-ll further reported that GARSON had become dissatisfied with the YSA over a factionalist dispute and had resigned from the YSA in Berkeley in February, 1963.

The December 12, 1961, issue of "The Daily ifornian", UCB Campus Publication, contained an article captioned, "Fair Play For Cuba," which was signed by two individuals, one of whom was "Bob Scheer, Grad Student, Econ., member, Fair Play Exec. Comm."

In the May 22, 1965, issue of the "San Francisco Examiner", a San Francisco, California, daily newspaper, there appeared an article captioned, "The 'Camp' Meeting at Cal." Among other things, the article identified ROBERT SCHEER as Research Director for the FPCC and informed SCHEER had visited Cuba in the summer of 1964 in defiance of a U.S. State Department ban.

ROBERT SCHEER is the Foreign News Editor for "Ramparts".magazine.

"Ramparts" is self-described as the "catholic journal of political opinion."

The February 23, 1966, issue of the "Berkeley Daily Gazette", a Berkeley, California, daily newspaper, informed among other things, that "SCHEER, an outspoken critic of the JOHNSON

982
NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 21


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

8
SF 14-207
FSP:mb

Administration policies in Viet Nam" was
"presently" touring South Vietnam and
Cambodia, the latter country at the
invitation of Prince SHIANOUK.

SF T-18 related on May 16, 1966, he could not recall who
told him, but he had the distinct impression he was told that
MARVIN GARSON was the main author of the soldier's leaflet."
SF T-18 added he had not heard anything linking JACK WEINBERG
with the preparation of the leaflet or that ROBERT SCHEER had
proofread the leaflet.

SF T-3 reported on May 6, 1966, chat he had no
knowledge of who actually prepared the "soldier's leaflet";
however, he vaguely recalled that the leaflet was at least in
part the work of SIDNEY CHERPITEL. He could furnish no specifics.

SF T-13 reported on November 4, 1965, that
SIDNEY WILLIAM CHERPITEL on November 3,
1965, considered himself a Communist, but
was not a member of the CP.

SF T-14 reported on May 6, 1966, he
possessed no information concerning who
prepared or assisted in the preparation
of the "soldier's leaflet".

SF T-13 related on October 13, 1965, that on October 11,
1965, at approximately 7:30 PM, MIKE O'HANLON and his girl
friend, MIRIAM GOLOMB, described by SF T-13 as very active in
the VDC, went to the Greyhound Bus Depot, 7th and Mission
Streets, San Francisco. SF T-13 commented their purpose for
visiting the Greyhound Bus Depot was to ship three (3) parcels
of leaflets to be distributed to soldiers. The leaflets were
captioned, "ATTENTION ALL MILITARY PERSONNEL", and were
addressed to J. PARISOT, C/O Department of Literature, University
of California at San Diego, La Jolla, California.

On May 4, 1966, C. A. TELFER, Greyhound Terminal
Manager, San Diego, California, informed that the bus bill for
the shipment of leaflets to J. PARISOT on October 11, 1965, if
such shipment were made, would be located at the Accounting
Department of the Greyhound General Office, Market and Fremont


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

9
SF 14-207
FSP:mb

Streets, San Francisco. Mr. TELFER commented all bus bills were furnished to San Francisco at the end of the month and they would contain the name of the person accepting delivery of the package.

EDWARD J. BASILE, Greyhound Bus Lines, 371 Market Street, San Francisco, furnished the following information to SA JOSEPH T. QUIGLEY on May 6, 1966.

Collect Bus Bill Number 520851, dated October 11, 1965, revealed three (3) boxes weighing sixty-five (65) pounds were sent to J. PARISOT, University of California, Department of Literature, La Jolla, California. The contents of the boxes were described as books and leaflets. The shipper was listed as the VDC, 2407 Fulton Street, Berkeley. Express charges were $4.40. No signature was shown on the bus bill to record the name of the recipient.

## DISTRIBUTION OF LEAFLET TO MILITARY SERVICEMEN SERVING OVERSEAS

As of April 10, 1966, the FBI Laboratory, Washington, D.C., had determined from handwriting comparisons, twenty-seven (27) leaflets sent to military personnel serving overseas had been sent by RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY.

PATRICK M. AYMAR, EM 3 E Division
USS KITTYHAWK (CVA)
FPO San Francisco

WILLIAM BAGLEY, 9142978
B Division, USS OKLAHOMA CITY (CLG 5)
FPO San Francisco

KEN CRAIGIE
USS PAUL REVERE APA 248
FPO San Francisco

A 3/c WARREN E. HANSEN, AF 19791037
481 TFS (Rote), 33 Tactical Group, Box P
APO San Francisco, 96601

22

NW 88613 DocId:34530152 Page 23


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

10
SF 14-207
FSP:mb

STEVE A. LINDQUIST, FA 7782253
M Division, USS DUNCAN 874
FPO San Francisco, 96601

G. L. RAPALEE
MM 2 A Div.
USS KITTYHAWK (CVA-63)
FPO San Francisco, 96601

PAUL J. THOMAS
USS MOUNT MC KINLEY
(A6c-7) COMPHIBGRJ-1
FPO San Francisco, 96601

CURTIS R. WESTLAKE, 7782535
USS MONTROSE (APA 212) B.C.
FPO San Francisco, 96601

Sergeant CARL DAHL's highly placed source in the VDC, SF T-14, SF T-3, and SF T-18 on May 4, 6, 6 and 16, 1966, respectively, were shown photographs of IVEY, and they informed they did not know him nor had they seen him at VDC headquarters, Berkeley, nor at any VDC activities. They commented that if an individual desired copies of the leaflet, they were available to anyone at VDC headquarters, 2407 Fulton Street, Berkeley.

Inasmuch as investigation to date had revealed that RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY had sent thirty-five (35) of the "soldier's leaflet" to military personnel serving overseas, the following investigation was conducted for the purpose of obtaining witnesses who could testify to IVEY's handwriting.

- 23 -

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 24


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

FD-302 (Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date 5/19/66

MR. ROBERT F. LEVERONI, Chief Clerk, Exchange Bank,
Main Office, 4th and Mendecino Avenue, Santa Rosa, California,
advised that he personally checked the open and closed accounts
of the main Exchange Bank's master indices on the name FICHARD
CLAYTON IVEY, and he could not locate this name in the records.

MR.LEVERONI also checked the following branches of the
Exchange Bank, for an open or closed account in the name of
IVEY, without results:

Montgomery Village Branch, Santa Rosa
Roseland Branch, Santa Rosa
College Avenue Branch, Santa Rosa

MR. LEVERONI advised that when he checked the Rohnert
Park Branch, Rohnert Park, California, he was advised by JAMES
W. HARRIS, Manager, that he personally opened up a savings
account in the name of RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY and DORINDA D. IVEY.
The account number is 28-04474. HARRIS further advised that
he was personally acquainted with RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY and was
the person who witnessed IVEY's signature.

On 5/13/66 at Santa Rosa, California File # SF 14-207

by SA MERLE R. ADAMS/pae 386 Date dictated 5/13/66

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 25


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date 5/20/66

JAMES W. HARRIS, Manager, Exchange Bank, Rohnert Park Branch, Post Office Box 1008, Rehnert Park, California, advised he personally opened a savings account, number 28-0447-4, on September 14, 1965, in the name of RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY and DORINDA D. IVEY. He said he personally witnessed the signature card and this card carried Social Security Number 562-50-8925, which number was given to him by RICHARD IVEY and was for the purpose of identifying this individual with his signature card.

MR. HARRIS was exhibited a photograph of RICHARD IVEY, which was taken March 18, 1963. This photograph is an excellent likeness of IVEY as determined by SA ADAMS when IVEY was contacted for interview on March 24, 1966. MR. HARRIS advised that the person in the photograph was RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY and identical with the RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY who had savings account number 28-0447-4. MR. HARRIS said he also had three withdrawal slips from the savings account, and these slips carry the signature of RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY. MR. HARRIS advised that he could testify to IVEY's signature as it appeared on the signature slip and on the three withdrawal slips. MR. HARRIS made available copies of the following items:

1.  Signature card number 28-0447-4 in the name of RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY and DORINDA D. IVEY.

2.  Savings Account withdrawal receipt dated March 1, 1966, in the amount of $25.00, with customer's signature RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY.

3.  Savings withdrawal slip dated January 10, 1966, in the amount of $54.66, with customer's signature RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY.

4.  Savings withdrawal slip, dated January 3, 1965, in the amount of $150.00, with customer's signature RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY.

On 5/13/66 at Rohnert Park, California File # SF 14-207

by SA MERLE R. ADAMS/pae

387 Date dictated 5/16/66

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

2
SF 14-207
MRA/pae

MR. HARRIS further advised that the records of his
bank revealed that RICHARD IVEY, 7314 Lynch Road, Sebastopol,
California, was issued a bank draft in the amount of $10.00,
drawn on the Chase National Bank of New York City. This draft
was issued on October 25, 1965.

The above-listed records of the Rohnert Park Branch,
Exchange Bank, are confidential and can only be produced through
the issuance of a subpoena duces tecum, addressed to MR. JAMES
W. HARRIS, Manager, Rohnert Park Branch, Exchange Bank, Post
Office Box 1008, Rohnert Park, California.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date 5/20/66

RICHARD CLAYTON IVEY, 1955 Chestnut Street, Berkeley,
California, on March 18, 1963, applied for a California Driver's
License at the Berkeley Office of the Department of Motor
Vehicles. This individual was described as born April 13,
1941, and he received driver's license number G645401.

MR. MARSHALL TURNER, Manager of the Department of
Motor Vehicles, 999 South A Street, Santa Rosa, California,
advised that on March 18, 1963, he was the Manager of the
Berkeley Office of the Department of Motor Vehicles. He stated
that he can testify that it is departmental policy and strictly
adhered to by him, that when a person applies for a driver's
license background data such as full name and address and date
of birth is typed in on Form DL-1, by a clerk. The applicant
is then given examination questions. When applicant completes
the examination, he takes it to an Examiner. The applicant
is then photographed. The Examiner then witnesses the applicant's
signature and the identity of the Examiner appears on the
reverse side of form DL-1. MR. TURNER stated that the Department
of Motor Vehicles, Sacramento, California, could supply a
certified, true copy of the driver's application with the name
of the Examiner who witnessed the signature.

MR. TURNER advised that the proper person to produce
this record in court is MR. THOMAS BRIGHT, Director, Department
of Motor Vehicles, Sacramento, California.

On 5/13/66 at Santa Rosa, CaliforniFile # SF 14-207

by SA MERLE R. ADAMS/pae

989 Date dictated 5/16/66

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 28


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

FD-302 (Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date 5/19/66

MRS. ANN BEACH, Deputy Registrar of Voters, Sonoma
County Court House, 2555 Mendocino Avenue, Santa Rosa, California,
advised that according to the records of her office she registered
a RICHARD C. IVEY, 7314 Lynch Road, Sebastopol, California, on
November 3, 1965, for voting purposes.

She stated that she can testify that her signature
appears on the Affidavit of Registration, No. B75888, and that
she personally witnessed the Affiant's signature.

She stated that the usual and accepted practice in
registering an individual is as follows:

The registrant comes to the counter in the Office of
Registrar of Voters. He asks to be registered. He is questioned
about his former registration, which in this case was Alameda
County. He is then asked for his height, birth place and birth
date. In this case the height was listed as 5'8", birth place
as California, and birth date as April 13, 1941. The next
question he is asked is, "Can you read the constitution in
the English language?" If the Affiant states in the affirmative,
he is then asked for his full name, address, occupation,
and the name of the party with which he would like to affiliate.
He is then asked, "Do you swear that all statements are true
to the best of your knowledge?" If the Affiant states in the
positive, he then has placed before him the Affidavit of Regis-
tration, which he must sign in the Deputy's presence, and in
this matter the Affiant signed the name "RICHARD C. IVEY, 7314
Lynch Road, Sebastopol."

MRS. BEACH, after witnessing the signature, in the
proper column entitled, "Subscribed and Sworn Before Me," she
affixes the date, signs her name in full and enters the precinct
number.

MRS. BEACH stated that the proper person to testify
to this long and accepted voting procedure in Sonoma County,
California, is the Clerk of the County Court.

On 5/13/66 at Santa Rosa, California File # SF 14-207

by SA MERLE R. ADAMS/pae 290 Date dictated 5/13/66

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusio
s of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to
your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 29


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

2
SF 14-207
MRA/pae

In this matter, the person who can so testify and produce the original Affidavit of Registration, is MR. EUGENE D. WILLIAMS, County Clerk, Sonoma County Court House, 2555 Mendocino Avenue, Santa Rosa, California.

29

991
NW 88613 DocId:34530152 Page 30


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SF14-207

1

BAY AREA PROGRESSIVE LABOR PARTY, aka
Bay Area Progressive Labor Movement,
Bay Area Progressive Labor,
"Progressive Labor"

The masthead in the February 8, 1965, issue of "Spark"
reflects it is published by the Progressive Labor Movement of the
Bay Area, P.O. Box 73, Station A, Berkeley.... page 4 of this
issue of "Spark" carries an article describing MORT SCHEER as the
"West Coast organizer" of the Progressive Labor Movement (PLM).

A source advised on January 7, 1965, that MORTIMER
SCHEER, following a press conference in San Francisco, California,
on January 7, 1965, related that he was the West Coast Organizer
for the PLM and National Vice Chairman. PLM was started about
three years ago as a national organization located mainly in the
New York and Buffalo areas, and he has been here since last July
striving to organize PLM. He stated PLM has several publications,
including "Progressive Labor", a monthly, and the "Marxist-Leninist
Quarterly."

The April 19, 1965, issue of the "San Francisco Chron-
icle", a daily San Francisco newspaper, carried an article which
related that the Progressive Labor Party (PLP) was officially
formed April 18, 1965, after a four-day convention in New York.
PLP was formerly known as the Progressive Labor Movement and MORT
SCHEER was elected as one of the vice-presidents of PLP.

A second source advised on May 6, 1965, that the Bay
Area Progressive Labor Party (BAPLP) has no headquarters.
MORTIMER SCHEER, organizer for BAPLP operates out of his residence.


APPENDIX

992

30

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 31


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

'SF14-207

# PROGRESSIVE LABOR PARTY (PLP)
## PROGRESSIVE LABOR MOVEMENT (PLM)

A source advised on April, 20, 1965, that the PLP, formerly known as the PLM, held its first national convention April 15-18, 1965, at New York City, to organize the PLM into a PLP. The PLP will have as its ultimate objective the establishment of a militant working class movement based on Marxism-Leninism.

"The New York Times," City Edition, Tuesday, April 20, 1965, page 27, reported that a new party of "revolutionary socialism" was formally founded on April 18, 1965, under the name of the PLP. The PLP was described as an outgrowth of the PLM. Its officers were identified as MILTON ROSEN, New York, President, and WILLIAM EPTON of New York and MORT SCHEER of San Francisco, Vice Presidents. A 20-member National Committee was elected to direct the party until the next convention.

According to the article, "The Progressive Labor Movement was founded in 1962 by Mr. ROSEN and Mr. SCHEER after they were expelled from the Communist Party of the United States for assertedly following the Chinese Communist line."

The PLP publishes the "Marxist-Leninist Quarterly," a theoretical magazine; "Progressive Labor," a monthly magazine; "Challenge," a New York City newspaper; and "Spark," a West Coast newspaper.

The June 1, 1965, issue of "Challenge," page 6, states that "This paper is dedicated to fight for a new way of life - where the working men and women own and control their homes, factories, the police, courts, and the entire government on every level."

The source advised that the PLP utilizes the address of General Post Office Box 808, Brooklyn 1, New York, but also utilizes an office in Room 622, 132 Nassau Street, New York City, where PLP publications are prepared.

# APPENDIX

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 32


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

COMMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL LIBERTIES
(CCL), aka Citizens Committee for
Constitutional Liberties - San Francisco

A source advised on June 19, 1961, that MICKEY LIMA,
Chairman, Northern California District, Communist Party (CP),
reported on June 15, 1961, that the CP, USA, in response to
the Supreme Court decision of June 5, 1961, relating to the
Internal Security Act of 1950, had decided to create a committee
known as Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties (CCCL),
22 East 17th Street, New York City, and that a local committee
would be organized for Northern California.

This source advised on June 26, 1961, that a meeting
was held on June 18, 1961, at the home of ROSCOE PROCTOR,
member of the National Committee, CP, USA, for the purpose of
formulating plans for the CCCL in Northern California.

A second source advised on September 14, 1961, that
the CCCL had opened an office at 942 Market Street, Room 401,
San Francisco, California, and that some of the furniture for
this office had come from the CP office on the same floor.

A third source advised June 22, 1962, that Dr.
HERBERT PHILLIPS announced that he had closed down the head-
quarters of the CCL at 942 Market Street, San Francisco.

A fourth source in November, 1962, advised that CP
officials in Northern California have been active in promoting
the CCL.

This same source advised in November, 1962, that the
CCL was active in the fight against the Internal Security Act
of 1950, under which. the CP and its officials were being
prosecuted.

A fifth source on May 2, 1963, furnished the names
of the officers of the CCL in San Francisco as Dr. HERBERT.J.
PHILLIPS, Chairman, and WALTER STACK, Treasurer.

Dr. HERBERT PHILLIPS testified in open
court in 1953 to CP membership since
1935.

APPENDIX


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SF14-207

2. 
A sixth source advised in April, 1963,
that WALTER STACK is a current CP member
in San Francisco.

One of these sources advised February 13, 1963,
WALTER STACK stated on February 8, 1963, that the officers of
the CCL were holding off temporarily on further activity
on the advice of MICKIE LUIA, District CP Chairman.

A seventh source advised that Dr. HERBERT PHILLIPS
stated in August, 1963, that the CCL is defunct in the San
Francisco area.

The fifth source above advised that the CCL bank
account at the Bank of America, #1 Powell Street, San Francisco,
was closed August 16, 1963, because it was "no longer needed".

APPENDIX

995

33


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SF14-207

1

CITIZENS COMMITTEE FOR CONSTITUTIONAL
LIBERTIES (NEW YORK CITY)

The Guide to Subversive Organizations and Publications, revised and published December 1, 1961, prepared and released by the Committee on Un-American Activities, United States House of Representatives, contains the following on Page 42 concerning "Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties (New York City)":

1.  "On the basis of its investigations and hearings to date, the committee concludes that the National Assembly for Democratic Rights and a co-ordinating and organizing group in support thereof, titled the 'Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties, are communist fronts. Created, dominated and controlled by members and officials of the Communist Party, the National Assembly for Democratic Rights and the Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties were organized as propaganda devices for the conduct of 'mass activity' in support of the avowed objectives of 'reversal or nonapplication' of the Supreme Court decisions of June 5, 1961, which upheld the constitution-ality of the registration and disclosure provisions of the Internal Security Act of 1950 as applied to the Communist Party, and the Smith Act membership clause making punishable active and purposive membership in the Communist Party."

"*** The long-range objective of the Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties is to serve as the vehicle for concealed communist participation in, and direction of, propaganda and agitational activities aimed to nullify the Internal Security and Smith Acts."

"*** Committee investigation disclosed that the Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties was formed on or about June 12, 1961 ***."

(Committee on Un-American Activities, Report and Hearings on Manipulation of Public Opinion by Organizations Under Concealed Control of the Communist Party (National Assembly for Democratic Rights and Citizens Committee for Constitutional Liberties), House Report 1282, Part 1, October 2 and 3, 1961, pp 137, 143 and 144.)

APPENDIX

996

34

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 35


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SF14-207

1. 
FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE,
BAY AREA CHAPTER, also known
as Bay Area Fair Play for Cuba
Committee (BAFPCC)

The "New York Times" newspaper on November 20, 1960 carried an article captioned "Pro-Castro Body Reports U.S. Gain," which reported that the Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC) had 5,000 paid-up members in the United States. The article declared that the FPCC had headquarters at 799 Broad- way, New York City, New York, and had chapters in other cities, including one in San Francisco.

A source advised in March, 1961, that the Bay Area Chapter of the FPCC (BAFPCC) began to be formed in San Francisco in November, 1960, under the direct guidance and leadership of ASHER HARER, who the source identified as a member of the San Francisco Branch of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) and a member of the National Committee of the SWP.

The SWP has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

This source advised in March, 1963, that in the recent election of the BAFPCC the SWP continued its influence by having SWP members elected to the executive committee.

This source advised in May, 1963, that the BAFPCC included members in San Francisco and surrounding counties. He advised that the BAFPCC has no headquarters but received mail through Post Office Box 2615, San Francisco 26, California, which is a box maintained by ASHER HARER. He stated that the announced aims and purposes of the BAFPCC are to "spread the truth about Cuba and to prevent U.S. intervention in Cuba."

A second source advised on January 10, 1964, that at a BAFPCC meeting in Berkeley, California, in December, 1963, it was decided to dissolve the BAFPCC.

APPENDIX

997


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SF14-207

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York Times"
newspaper contained a full-page advertisement captioned
"What Is Really Happening in Cuba," placed by the Fair Play
for Cuba Committee (FPCC). This advertisement announced
the formation of the FPCC in New York City and declared the
FPCC intended to promulgate "the truth about revolutionary
Cuba" to neutralize the distorted American press.

"The New York Times" edition of January 11, 1961,
reported that at a hearing conducted before the United States
Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on January 10, 1961,
Dr. CHARLES A. SANTOS-BUCH identified himself and ROBERT TABER
as organizers of the FPCC. He also testified he and TABER
obtained funds from the Cuban Government which were applied
toward the cost of the aforementioned advertisement.

On May 16, 1963, a source advised that during the
first two years of the FPCC's existence there was a struggle
between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers Party (SWP)
elements to exert their power within the FPCC and thereby
influence FPCC policy. This source added that during the
past year there had been a successful effort by FPCC leadership
to minimize the role of these and other organizations in the
FPCC so that their influence as of May, 1963, was negligible.

The SWP has been designated by the Attorney
General of the United States pursuant to
Executive Order 10450.

On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that
VINCENT "TED" LEE, FPCC National Office Director, was then
formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no
intention of permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any
other organization. This source stated that LEE believed
that the FPCC should advocate resumption of diplomatic
relations between Cuba and the United States and should
support the right of Cubans to manage their revolution without
interference from other nations. LEE did not advocate
supporting the Cuban revolution per se.

APPENDIX

998

36

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 37


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SF.14-207
2

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE (cont'd.)

The November 23, 1963, edition of "The New York Times" reported that Senator THOMAS J. DODD of Connecticut had called FPCC "the chief public relations instrument of the Castro network in the United States." It is to be noted that Senator DODD was a member of the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee which twice conducted hearings on the FPCC.

The December 27, 1963, edition of "The New York World Telegram and Sun" newspaper stated that the pro-Castro FPCC was seeking to go out of business and that its prime activity during its lifetime had been sponsorship of pro-Castro street rallies and mass picket lines, and the direction of an active propaganda mill highlighting illegal travel-to-Cuba campaigns. Its comparatively brief span of life was attributed to mounting anti-Castro American public opinion, the 1962 Congressional hearings which disclosed FPCC financing by Castro's United Nations Delegation, and ultimately, the bad publicity which the FPCC received from disclosure of activities on its behalf by suspected Presidential assassin LEE H. OSWALD.

On February 6, 1964, the previously mentioned second source advised that V. T. LEE had recently remarked that the FPCC was dead and that there were no plans to organize another similar organization.

On April 13, 1964, a third source advised that there had not been any FPCC activity in many months and that the FPCC had been dissolved.

APPENDIX

999

37
NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 38


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SF14-207

1. 
SAN FRANCISCO SCHOOL OF SOCIAL SCIENCES, aka
San Francisco School of Social Science,
San Francisco Marxist Study Group,
San Francisco School of Marxism-Leninism,
San Francisco School of Marxism

A source advised on February 6, 1962, that the first
class of the San Francisco Marxist Study Group (SFMSG) was held on
February 5, 1962, at 345 Franklin Street, San Francisco, California,
and that the instructor of this class stated that the main purpose
of the SFMSG was to train young people for leadership of the
people in the event the U. S. wakes up to the advantages of
communism.

A second source advised on April 23, 1964, that the San
Francisco School of Social Sciences (SFSSS), has been known as the
"San Francisco School of Social Science," "San Francisco Marxist
Study Group," "San Francisco School of Marxism-Leninism," and "San
Francisco School of Marxism."

A third source furnished the Spring, 1964, Bulletin of
the SFSSS on October 14, 1964, which reflected that TERENCE
HALLINAN and J. P. MORRAY were Co-Directors of the SFSSS.

A fourth source advised on April 9,
1965, that in April, 1965, TERENCE
HALLINAN advised that he was not a
member of the Communist Party (CP),
but considered himself a communist
and intended to join the CP as soon
as he passed his bar exams.

A fifth source advised March 1, 1963,
that HERBERT APTHEKER, a member of the
CP, USA, National Committee, advised in
February, 1963, that he was to be the
East Coast Chairman and JOSEPH P. MORRAY -
the West Coast Director of a new organi-
zation being promoted by the CP, USA, to
teach and propagate Marxist theories.

The third source further advised on January 26, 1966,
that due to the failure of the SFSSS during its Spring, 1965,
term to raise support sufficient to continue all of its scheduled
classes, no classes were organized for a Fall, 1965, term. The
SFSSS no longer exists.

APPENDIX

1000 37


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SF14-207

1

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY
SAN FRANCISCO DIVISION

A source advised on August 1, 1960, that the San
Francisco Branch of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) was formed
approximately in the early part of 1938 and the Oakland Branch of
the SWP was formed in the latter part of 1938.

A second source advised on October 26, 1959, that the
name of the Oakland Branch of the SWP was changed to the Oakland-
Berkeley Branch of the SWP.

A third source advised on April 2, 1965, that the San
Francisco Branch and the Oakland-Berkeley Branch of the SWP follow
the policies and directives of the National SWP with which they are
affiliated.

The SWP has been designated by the Attorney
General of the United States pursuant to
Executive Order 10450.

APPENDIX

1001

39


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# STUDENT COMMITTEE FOR TRAVEL TO CUBA

"The Columbia Owl," weekly student newspaper of Columbia University, New York City, December 12, 1962, issue, page one, contained an article entitled "Students to Visit Cuba During Holidays." This article stated in part that the Ad Hoc Student Committee for Travel to Cuba was formed October 14, 1962, by a group of students from New York City universities, the University of Wisconsin, Oberlin College and the University of North Carolina, who stated that as students they would like a chance to see and evaluate the situation in Cuba for themselves and had received an offer of transportation and two weeks stay in Cuba from the Federation of University Students in Havana, as guests of the Federation. The Committee accepted the offer and applied to the State Department of the United States for passport validation which was refused; however, over fifty students planned to defy the State Department ban and go to Cuba.

A source advised on December 6, 1962, it was learned the Ad Hoc Student Committee for Travel to Cuba had recently been formed by the Progressive Labor Group.

A second source advised on September 13, 1963, that during the Summer of 1963, fifty-nine individuals traveled to Cuba; the leaders of the group were members of the Progressive Labor Movement; and the trip was planned and organized by Progressive Labor Movement members.

A third source advised on October 9, 1963, the Student Committee for Travel to Cuba was utilizing Post Office Box 2178, New York, New York, as its mailing address.

On March 12, 1965, Philip Abbott Luce, 504 West 55th Street, New York, New York, a self-admitted member of the Student Committee for Travel to Cuba Executive Committee and the Progressive Labor Movement National Coordinating Committee, advised as follows:

The Student Committee for Travel to Cuba (SCTC) was formerly known as the Ad Hoc Student Committee for Travel to Cuba and the Permanent Student Committee for Travel to Cuba.

Luce was a leader and participant of the 1963 trip to Cuba and an organizer of the 1964 trip to Cuba and both trips were sponsored by the SCTC.

By the Spring of 1964 the Executive Committee of the SCTC was considered to be members of the Progressive Labor Movement.

No trip to Cuba or China was being planned by the SCTC for 1965.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SF14-207

W. E. B. DU BOIS CLUBS OF AMERICA (DCA)

A source has advised that on October 26-27, 1963, a conference of members of the Communist Party (CP), including national functionaries, met in Chicago, Illinois, for the purpose of setting in motion forces for the establishment of a new national Marxist-oriented youth organization which would hunt for the most peaceful transition to socialism. The delegates to this meeting were cautioned against the germ of anti-Soviet and anti-CP ideologies. These delegates were also told that it would be reasonable to assume that the young socialists attracted into this new organization would eventually pass into the CP itself.

A second conference of over 20 persons met in Chicago on December 28-29, 1963, for the purpose of initiating a "call" to the new youth organization and planning for a founding convention to be held in June, 1964.

A second source has advised that the founding convention for the new youth organization was held from June 19-21, 1964, at 150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisci, California, at which time the name W. E. B. DuBois Clubs of America (DCA) was adopted. Approximately 500 delegates from throughout the United States attended this convention. The aims of this organization, as set forth in the preamble to the constitution are, "It is our belief that this nation can best solve its problems in an atmosphere of peaceful coexistence, complete disarmament and true freedom for all peoples of the world, and that these solutions will be reached mainly through the united efforts of all democratic elements in our country, composed essentially of the working people allied in the unity of Negroes and other minorities with whites. We further fully recognize that the greatest threat to American democracy comes from the racist and right wing forces in coalition with the most reactionary sections of the economic power structure, using the tool of anti-Communism to divide and destroy the unified struggle of the working people. As young people in the forces struggling for democracy, we shall actively strive to defeat these reactionary and neo-fascist elements and to achieve complete freedom and democracy for all Americans, thus enabling each individual to freely choose and build the society he would wish to live in. Through these struggles we feel the American people will realize the viability of the socialist alternative."

APPENDIX


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SF2140207

The constitution further states that this new
organization shall be a membership organization open to individuals,
or if five or more people so desire, a chapter can be formed which
shall in turn be guided by the policies and principles of the parent
organization.

As of October, 1965, the headquarters of the DCA was
located at 954 McAllister Street, San Francisco, California.

Over the Labor Day weekend, 1965, the DCA held a conference
in Chicago, Illinois. According to a third source, a new slate
of national officers was elected at this conference, which included
Chairman HUGH STERLING FOWLER, II (who, according to the third
source, attended a CP cadre encampment held at Camp Midvale, New
Jersey, in June, 1965, and following his election as Chairman
of the DCA, attended another national CP cadre youth conference
held on September 9-12, 1965, on a farm located in Northern
Indiana, according to a fourth source); Director of Publicity
CARL ELLENGER BLOICE (who was elected to the San Francisco County
Committee CP in April, 1964, according to a fifth source);
Educational Director MATTHEW "DYNAMITE" HALLINAN (who in June, 1964,
was stated to be the Youth Representative on the Northern California
CP District Board, according to a sixth source); Organizational
Secretary TERENCE "KAYO" HALLINAN (who, according to a seventh
source, met in June, 1965, with the District Staff of the Illinois
CP to discuss the proposed DCA Midwest Summer Project), and
Treasurer SUSAN PHYLLIS BORENSTEIN (who, according to an eighth
source, has attended meetings of the Youth Club of the CP of
Illinois during 1965 in connection with the DCA Summer Project).

APPENDIX

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 43


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

1. SF14-207

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE (known in the San Francisco Bay area as the Bay Area Young Socialist Alliance, aka the Bay Area Committee of the Young Socialist Alliance, Bay Area Committee for the Young Socialist)

A source advised on May 16, 1960, that the Bay Area Young Socialist Alliance (BAYSA) was formed in February, 1958, as the Bay Area Committee for the Young Socialist (BACYS). At a later stage in its development prior to adoption of the name BAYSA, the organization was known as the Bay Area Committee of the Young Socialist Alliance (BACYSA).

The source advised that as a result of a national convention held April 15-17, 1960, at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the BAYSA became a branch of the national organization to be known as the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA) and will carry out in the Northern California area the policies of the YSA.

The source advised August 19, 1965, that the BAYSA is currently active and is composed of three locals, the San Francisco YSA, the Berkeley YSA, and the San Jose YSA.

The source advised that the BAYSA, although ostensibly an independent organization, is in reality controlled by the San Francisco Branch, Socialist Workers Party (SWP) and Oakland Branch SWP.

The SWP has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

APPENDIX

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 44


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SF14-207

# YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE

The May, 1960 issue of the "Young Socialist" ("YS") page 1, column 3, disclosed that during April 15-17, 1960, a national organization entitled "Young Socialist Alliance" (YSA) was established at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. This issue stated this organization was formed by the nationwide supporter clubs of the publication "YS".

The above issue, page 6, set forth the Founding Declaration of YSA. This declaration stated YSA recognizes the Socialist Workers Party (SUP) as the only existing political leadership on class struggle principles, and that the supporters of the "YS" have come into basic political solidarity with the SUP on the principles of revolutionary socialism.

A source advised on May 7, 1965, that the original YSA was an organization formed during October, 1957 in New York City, by youth of various left-socialist tendencies, particularly members and followers of the SUP. The leaders of this group were the guiding forces in the establishment of the national organization.

The source further advised on May 7, 1965, YSA is dominated and controlled on a national basis by the SUP through having SUP members comprise exclusively the National Executive Committee (NEC) and through an official SUP representative at all YSA NEC meetings. The YSA, in reality, is the youth and training section of the SUP and the main source of new SUP members.

The headquarters of the YSA is located in Room 631, 41 Union Square West, New York City.

The SUP has been designated pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

# APPENDIX


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# SF14-207


YOUTH FOR JOBS (YFJ), aka
Youth for Jobs Committee

A source advised in July 1963, that several recent graduates and dropouts of high schools in Oakland and Berkeley, California, had on April 17, 1963, attended the organizing meeting of Youth for Jobs (YFJ) in Oakland, California, in response to letters prepared by ROSCOE PROCTOR and DOUGLAS WACHTER. At this meeting, WACHTER gave reports on the unemployment problem among youth and the need for an organization of this type. PROCTOR also spoke at this meeting.

In May 1963, a second source advised that ROSCOE PROCTOR attended meetings of the National Executive Committee of the Communist Party (CP), USA, during May 1963, in New York City.

In January 1963, a third source identified DOUGLAS WACHTER as the Chairman of a CP recruiting class held in January 1963, in Berkeley, California.

In May 1963, the first source advised that in May 1963, a 12-page pamphlet entitled "Youth for Jobs Aims and Purposes" was distributed. This pamphlet described YFJ as an independent organization of young people working together to find solutions to current vocational, social and recreational problems; it specified that YFJ is not affiliated with any other organizations, but would fully support the labor movement and any other organizations striving to combat unemployment and to increase job security for all employees.

In June 1963, the third source advised that at a meeting of the Political Committee of the CP of the East Bay Region (Alameda and Contra Costa Counties, California) held in June 1963, VIRGINIA PROCTOR, member of that Committee, gave a report on a draft document read before the National Committee, CP, USA, by GUS HALL, member of the National Committee, CP, USA. In connection with the portion of the report dealing with youth, PROCTOR said "A report from this area on the activity around Youth for Jobs organized by ROSCOE PROCTOR will be included in the final document, as one of the signs of the Party work in organizing the unemployed."

On May 3, 1965, a fourth source advised that ROSCOE PROCTOR has promoted and guided YFJ since its inception and continues to do so. The source stated that meetings of YFJ are held at the YFJ Club House, 1095 - 59th Street, Oakland, California, and at homes of individual members.

1007

APPENDIX

NW 88613 Docld:34530152 Page 46


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

![federal bureau of investigation seal]

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
San Francisco, California

May 24, 1966

In Reply, Please Refer to
File No. 14-2943
SF 14-207

Title VIETNAM DAY COMMITTEE

Character SEDITION

Reference Report of FRANK S. PERRONE,
dated and captioned as above,
at San Francisco, California

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

1003

NW 88613 DocId:34530152 Page 47


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)