# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10012-10030
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC643360W PAGES 15-16

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : CIA
TO :
TITLE : CIA INFORMATION REPORT
DATE : 01/04/63
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: PFUNTNER, JORDAN J.

UNDIMINISHED PRESTIGE OF FIDEL CASTRO IN LATIN AMERICA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/22/97
OPENING CRITERIA: COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY CIA.
COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH CIA HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER LTR DTD 23 SEP 97.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY CUBA/LATIN AMERICA

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/532,860

SUBJECT UNDIMINISHED PRESTIGE OF FIDEL CASTRO IN LATIN AMERICA

DATE DISTR. 4 JANUARY 1963

DATE OF INFO. DECEMBER 1962

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES RD-W-2107

IN 44195

PLACE & DATE ACQ. ENGLAND, LONDON (3 JANUARY 1963)

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO. OEL-34,413

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE AN OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM "A REGULAR SOURCE, QUOTING A YUGOSLAV JOURNALIST WHO RECENTLY TOURED LATIN AMERICA."

1. FIDEL CASTRO HAS LOST LITTLE PRESTIGE AMONG HIS SUPPORTERS IN LATIN AMERICA AS RESULT RECENT CRISIS. IN EYES OF HIS DISCIPLES, THE UNITED STATES FAILED TO EXPLOIT AN OPPORTUNITY TO UNSEAT HIM, AND CASTRO REMAINED IN POWER.

2. LATIN AMERICAN COMMUNIST PARTIES HAVE BECOME INCREASINGLY DIVIDED BETWEEN VIOLENT AND NON-VIOLENT FACTIONS. THIS CONTROVERSY IS LIKELY TO RESULT IN INDIVIDUAL COMMUNIST PARTIES ADOPTING MORE INDEPENDENT AND FELXIBLE POLICIES. THERE IS A GENERAL TREND AGAINST POLICIES "DICTATED FROM OUTSIDE."

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OBI 00 INS

STATE/DIR FBI EXO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

DA IN 4722

FORM 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

NW 68037 DocId:34517486 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

IN 44195
TDCS-3/532,860
PAGE 2

3. BRITISH COMMENTS.

   A. THE IMPRESSION DESCRIBED IN PARA 1 DOES NOT
   AGREE ENTIRELY WITH INFORMATION FROM OTHER SOURCES BUT IT IS
   AN INTERESTING POINT OF VIEW.

   B. SOURCE SAYS THAT CUBAN EXILES IN VENEZUELA
   ARE "DISILLUSIONED" OVER THE OUTCOME OF THE CUBAN CRISIS BUT
   THAT THE DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL (DRE,
   REVOLUTIONARY STUDENT DIRECTORATE) AND ALPHA 66 INTEND
   TO CONTINUE PROMOTING SMALL-SCALE ATTACKS ON CUBA.

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, CINCLANT, CINCARIB.

END OF MESSAGE

ACTION: ACS, NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD
INFO: DCSOP
DA IN 4722

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NW 68037 Docld:34517486 Page 3

0000


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)