Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
# IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10356
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 5-6

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : LOOS, DONALD A
TO : CDR IN CHIEF, USA, PACIFIC
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 04/08/69
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

RETENTION IN ARMY

BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION

PUERTO RICAN COMMUNIST PARTY

AMERICAN LABOR PARTY

CHARACTER REFERENCES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : INCLOSURE NOT INCLUDED. RECORD WAS REGRADED
UNCLASSIFIED ON 20 JUL 94.

NW 88613_DocId:34529172 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

![Department of defense united states of america logo]

DEPARTMENT OF ARMY
HEADQUARTERS, UNITED STATES ARMY VIETNAM
ARO SAN FRANCISCO 96375

IN REPLY REFER TO

AVHGB-C

8 APR 1969

SUBJECT: MARTI, Manuel (NMN), PFC, US 52 773 870
DPOB: 17 May 1946; San Juan, Puerto Rico
SSAN: 093-36-4601 (U)

Commander in Chief
United States Army, Pacific
ATTN: GPIN-SP
APO 96558

1. (U) Reference paragraph 27a, AR 604-10.

2. (U) Based upon a review of the attached file, this headquarters considers that SUBJECT'S retention in the Army is clearly consistent with the interests of national security and, therefore, recommends that this case be closed favorably under paragraph 27a, AR 604-10.

3. (C) Background and reason for investigation. a. (c) SUBJECT'S father was reported to have had the following CP association: 1939 to 1943, active in the Puerto Rican Communist Party (PCP) in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico and President of the Party in that city from 1941 to 1943; 1946, selected as PCP Organizational Secretary; 1948 to 1949, in charge of CP meetings in New York City; 1950, attended PCP meetings with marked regularity; 1951, belonged to the Bronx County, NYC Section of the CP; 1952, registered as a member of the American Labor Party (ALP) and showed preference for the ALP for two years; July 1952, met with the PCP Labor Secretary and other Puerto Rican communists in NYC; 1953, reported to be a CP member; 1956, sympathized with the CP but no evidence of membership in the CP; November 1963 to April 1964, attended CP meetings; 1964, attended meetings and rally sponsored by the Emergency Committee for Disaster Relief to Cuba; February 1967, approved as a member of the new Bronx County CP Committee; and in 1966 and 1967, attended meetings of the Puerto Rican Commission of the CP. SUBJECT'S father was interviewed by the FBI in January 1957 and July 1959 and denied being a member of the PCP, the CPUSA, ever attending meetings of either organization, or ever fostering their causes.

b. (U) A favorable NAC concerning SUBJECT was completed on 23 September 1968. DD Forms 98 and 398 executed by SUBJECT on 12 May and 1 August 1968,

![REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 20 que ay. BY CDR LISAINSCOM F01/PO AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R]

NW 88613 Docld:34529172 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

AVHGB-C
SUBJECT: MARTI, Manuel (NMN), PFC, US 52 773 870
DPCB: 17 May 1946; San Juan, Puerto Rico
SSAN: 093-36-4601 (U)

8 APR 1969

respectively, were unqualified. Local agencies disclosed the information in
paragraph 3a, above. CONUS and USARV limited investigations from 21 August
1968 to 25 March 1969 disclosed the following:

(1) Local agencies disclosed no record of SUBJECT or HIS sister. A
local agency disclosed that in 1962, SUBJECT'S brother was a subscriber to
*New Horizons for Youth*, a CP publication. Three education checks disclosed
no derogatory information; an education source recommended HIM favorably.
Two employments were checked with favorable results; five employment sources
interviewed disclosed no derogatory information and recommended HIM favor-
ably.

(2) Nine character references disclosed no derogatory information
concerning SUBJECT and recommended HIM favorably. Five of the sources dis-
closed that no member of HIS family had ever been known to make statements
critical of the US or to voice pro-communist views. One of the sources dis-
closed that HIS father occasionally brought home a socialist newspaper and
agreed with its comments critical of the US. On these occasions, SUBJECT
and HIS brother argued in defense of the US and HIS father was not able to
influence HIS political thinking and beliefs.

(3) SUBJECT was interviewed under oath on 25 March 1969, and was
willing to submit to polygraph examination. HE stated substantially as
follows: HE was anti-communist. HE never participated in communist activi-
ties or knowingly associated with any CP members. HIS father was a democrat
but he did not always agree with party views or their candidates. HIS
father's political ideologies had no influence on HIM. HE was loyal to the
US and supported its Constitution in its entirely.

4. (U) SUBJECT'S ETS is 20 May 1970 and HIS DEROS is December 1969.

FOR THE COMMANDER:

Donald A. Loos
DONALD A. LOOS
LTC, GS
Actg Asst Adjutant General

1 Incl
Case File

6. 
NW 88613 Docld:34529172 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)