Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10004-10383
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGE 42

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE: 11/19/68
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE (CO-WORKER)

MUTUAL INSURANCE ADVISORY ASSOCIATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34529199 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED

19 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(EMPLOYMENT CO-WORKER) On 24 September 1968, Albert B. Cassidy Jr., Personnel Director, Mutual Insurance Advisory Association, 733 3rd Avenue, New York, New York 10017, who resides at 2939 Route number 2, Browns Mills, New Jersey 08015, was interviewed at his place of employment concerning Manuel MARTI. Source, who was associated with MARTI as a co-worker at Mutual Insurance Advisory Association from April 1965 to May 1968, stated substantially as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT in April 1965, when he interviewed MARTI for employment at Mutual Insurance Advisory Association, and maintained daily business contact with SUBJECT throughout HIS period of employment with the aforementioned organization. Source had no social contact with SUBJECT, and last saw MARTI in May 1968 when HE departed the organization on military leave.

SUBJECT was employed at Mutual Insurance Advisory Association from 5 April 1965 to 20 May 1968. HE was originally hired as a Utility Clerk. HE was subsequently promoted to Utility Clerk Supervisor and later to Tabulating Machine Operator. MARTI enjoyed an excellent reputation among HIS associates at HIS place of employment and everyone was sorry to see HIM leave. Source would be happy to re-employ SUBJECT upon termination of HIS military service.

SUBJECT was single and resided with HIS parents in Bronx, New York, further details unknown. SUBJECT'S mother, name unknown, died in late 1966 or early 1967. MARTI is a high school graduate, and HE worked for Polly Perry Stores, New York, New York, prior to HIS employment at Mutual Insurance Advisory Association. Source has no further knowledge concerning SUBJECT'S personal background, but believed that SUBJECT was of Puerto Rican decent.

SUBJECT is of excellent character, integrity, discretion and morals. HE is financially responsible, and had no known difficulty with law enforcement agencies during the period of association. SUBJECT manifested no undesirable personal habits, nor any sign of immaturity or emotional instability. Source had no knowledge concerning the degree of influence exerted on SUBJECT by HIS parents. MARTI was never heard to express any radical political views, and Source considers HIM to be pro-democratic in HIS political views and loyal to the United States. SUBJECT has no known organizational affiliations, and Source had no knowledge concerning HIS foreign travels, foreign interests or relatives residing abroad.

Cassidy highly recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Group (I-SIB)

NW 88613 Docld:34529199 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)