Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date : 05/04/98
Page : 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10002-10094
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 393

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 12/09/66
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : FROMER, DAVID R.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 10/15/97
OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY FBI
COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH FBI HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 17 OCT 1997.

NW 88613 DocId:34528592 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   FROMER, David Read
   SSvc Registrant, SSN: 564 58 8137
   DOB: 21 July 1942
   POB: Chicago, Illinois

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   9 December 1966

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(LOCAL AGENCY-SUBJECT) On 7 December 1966, files of the San Francisco
Office, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), 450 Golden Gate Avenue, San
Francisco, California, were examined regarding SUBJECT by a representative of
Source who furnished the following:

SUBJECT has been of continuing interest to the FBI with reports dating
from 3 May 1960 to the latest dated 23 November 1966. All the reports are
titled: David Reed FROMER, with Bureau File #: 100-433071. A copy of all
these reports have been furnished the Department of the Army.

Source requested that all information to include the forms HE
completed, DD Form 398 and DD Form 98, be furnished the SFO-FBI.

AGENT'S NOTES: The forms requested by the SFO-FBI were furnished
their office on 9 December 1966.

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE
ON 10/15/97

RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL

CONTAINED
DATE: 4-19-96 BY 5668 SLD/KSR
(JFK)

Added
Restrictions
1C and 3.
Hope That's
right.


5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   EUGENE J. POWER, 115th MI Group (I)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

DA FORM 341
1 APR 52 REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88613 DocId:34528592 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)