Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 07/19/96
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10012-10400
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ZF000003W - PAGES 785-787

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : DCSI USCOB BERLIN
TO : OPSI USAREUR HEIDELBERG
TITLE : MESSAGE
DATE: 12/02/67
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

POSSIBLE US ARMY DESERTERS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: PAGES 785-787 WERE REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 22 SEP 94.

NW 88613 Docld:34531087 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONFIDENTIAL

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

NATIONAL MILITARY COMMAND CENTER

MESSAGE CENTER

465341 54525

DA IN

CALL 53337
FOR NMCC/MC
SERVICE

B041N JCS 738/5

VZCZCTEA358

PP RUEPJS

DE RUFPBK 031 3390945

ZNY CCCCC

P 050945Z DEC 67

FM USCINCEUR

INFO DIA DIACI WASH DC

P 021230Z DEC 67

FM DCSI USCOB BERLIN GER

TO DPSI USAREUR HE IDELBERG GER

L05 18 162

GP 4

ND AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS

DECLASSIFIED AFTER

10-303-67 FROM: DCSI, USCOB

SGD CARPENTER

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE US DESERTERS (U) #2

1. (C) ON 28 NOVEMBER 1967, WEST BERLIN POLICE ADVISED

THAT THE FOLLOWING PERSONS, DESERTERS FROM THE AMERICAN

ARMY, WERE POSSIBLY IN WEST BERLIN:

PETER SIMONS

BORN 5 MAY 1943 IN GERMANY

ROMAN ARNOLD

BORN 6 JANUARY 1945, PRESUMABLY IN GERMANY

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 22 SEP 94
BY CDR USCOM F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R

2. (C) THIS INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED FROM THE DUS-

SELDORF POLICE, WHO REQUESTED THAT THE INDIVIDUALS BE

TAKEN INTO CUSTODY AND TURNED OVER TO THE AMERICAN MILITARY

POLICE. DURING A VISIT IN DUESSELDORF IN LATE OCTOBER, THE

TWO MENTIONED THAT THEY WANTED TO GO TO BERLIN TO AN

UNIDENTIFIED STUDENT ORGANIZATION. THEY FURTHER STATED

THAT THEY DID NOT WANT TO GO TO VIETNAM

3. (C) THIS SAME MESSAGE WAS SENT TO THE FRANKFURT/

MAIN POLICE, INASMUCH AS SIMONS HAS A GIRL FRIEND THERE,

AND HIS FATHER ALSO RESIDES IN THAT CITY. INSTRUCTIONS TO THE

FRANKFURT POLICE WERE THE SAME.

4. (C) ON 1 DECEMBER 1967, THE WEST BERLIN POLICE REPORTED

THAT THE TWO MEN HAD BEEN REGISTERED IN THE FRENCH SECTOR SINCE

27 SEPTEMBER 1967 AT FALKENTHALER STEIG 140, C/O DECH, BERLIN-

HERMSFDORF. POLICE ARE DEFERRING ANY ACTION IN THAT MATTER.

5. (C) CONFIDENTIAL SOURCES HAVE VERIFED THAT THE TWO MEN

HAVE BEEN IN WEST BERLIN ON SEVERAL OCCOASIONS IN OCTOBER AND

ACTION: DIA-15

INFO. CJCS-1 DJS-3 J1-2 SDEF-7 ASD/ISA-9 ASD/MPR-1 ST-1 CIA-4

CSA-1 CNO-2 CSAF-1 CMC-7 FILE-1(55) ETO/RA

PAGE 1 OF 3

DA IN 465341

785

NW 88613 Docld:34531087 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
NATIONAL MILITARY COMMAND CENTER
MESSAGE CENTER

NOVEMBER, WITH THEIR EXACT WHERE ABOUTS UNKNOWN. THEY HAVE RETAINED
ATTORNEY HORST MAHLER TO REPRESNT THEIR INTERESTS. IT APPEARS
THAT ARNOLD IS TRYING TO OBTAIN YUGOSLAVIAN CITIZENSHIP. THE
STUDENT ORGANIZATION HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED AS THE FREE UNIVERSITY
ASTA, OR GENERAL STUDENTS COMMITTEE, THE STUDENT BODY ORGANIZATION.
FU STUDENTS HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED AS ACT IVE IN THE AREA OF OFFER ING
TO ASSIST LOCAL MILITARY PERSONNEL WHO WISH TO AVOID SERVICE IN
VIET NAM BY GOING TO A NEUTRAL COUNTRY.

6. (U) INFORMATION ON DD FORM 553 RECEIVED BY TELEPHONE FROM
   POLICE DUSSELDORF INDICATES FOLLOWING DATA:

ARNOLD, ROMAN, SP4 E4
RA 16 838 103
SSN; 355-36-1583
SPECIAL PROCESSING DET, HQ USAG TROOPS
FT HOOD, TEXAS
DATE AND LOCATION OF ENTRY INTO ACTIVE DUTY: 15 OCT 67,
AF EES, CHICAGO, ILL.
ABSENT AS OF: 21 SEP 67, 05 15 HRS
CARRIED AS DESERTER AS OF: 10 OCT 67
MOS: 36 C 20
BOB: 6 JAN 45, POB: GERMANY

SIMONS, PETERK., SP4 E4
RA 19 84 1 799
SSN: 550-66-6254
SAME UNIT
DATE AND LOCATION OF ENTRY INTO ACTIVE DUTY: 28 APR 65,
US ARMY RMS, LOS ANGELES, CA
ABSENT AS OF: 21 SEP 67, 0515 HRS
CARRIED AS DESERTER AS OF: 10 OCT 67
MOS: 31M 20 (RAD 10 RELAY OPER AT OR)
DOB: 5 MAY 43N POB: COTTBUS, GERM ANY

7. (C) ATTEMPTS BEING MADE TO ASCERTAIN IF SIMONS AND ARNOLD
   ARE IN BERLIN AND TO DEVELOP INFORMATION ON THE PERSONS AND
   ORGANIZATIONS RENDERING ASSISTANCE TO THESE US ARMY DESERTERS. IT
   IS NOT KNOWN AT THIS TIME WHETHER SUBJECTS ARE US CITIZENS OR

DA IN 465341

PAGE 2 OF 3

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 22 SEP 94
BY CDR USAISCOM F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R

PAGE 2

54525

786

NW 88613 Docld:34531087 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
NATIONAL MILITARY COMMAND CENTER
MESSAGE CENTER

GERMAN NAT IONALS. WEST BERLIN POLICE RECORDS INDICATE SIMONS IN
POSSESSION OF FRG PASSPORT NR 26167 12 AND THAT ARNOLD WAS UNABLE TO
PRODUCE ANY IDENTITY DOCUMENTS. GP-4
& (C) ADVERSE PUBLICITY AND STUDENT DEMONSTRATIONS MAY RESULT
WHEN SUBJECTS ARE APPREHENDED. THERE ARE NO LEGAL PROBLEMS SEEN
EITHER BY THE SJA, US COB OR BY USBER. MINISTER HAS BEEN BRIEFED
AND USBER IS PROVIDING DETAILS TO U. S. EMBASSY, BONN.
(C) UNLESS OTHERWISE DIRECTED BY USAREUR OR US EMBASSY BONN
THE FOLLOWING ACTIONS WILL BE TAKEN IF SUBJECTS ARE DETERMINED TO
BE IN BERLIN.
A. WEST BERLIN POLICE WILL BE ASKED TO APPREHEND
SUBJECTS. US MILITARY POLICE WILL ACCOMPANY THE WEST BERLIN
POLICE.
B. SUBJECTS WILL BE APPREHENDED AS QUIETLY AS POS-
SIBLE AND TAKEN TO BERLIN BRIGADE STOCKADE AND PLACED IN
SEPARATE ROOMS.
C. SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS HAVE BEEN COORDINATED!
FOR C47 AIRCRAFT STATIONED AT EMPLEHOF TO FLY SUBJECTS
TO RHEIN MAIN IMMEDIATELY AFTER APPREHENSION DUE TO
POSSIBLE ADVERSE PUBLICITY AND STUDENT REACT IONS.
10. (C) DIRECT COORDINATION WITH MILITARY POLICE AT RHEIN
MAIN WILL BE ACCOMPLISHED BY PM BERLIN BRIGADE. HOWEVER, RECOM-
MEND USAREUR COORDINATE ARRANGEMENTS FOR ONWARD MOVEMENT FROM
RHEIN MAIN. GP-4
BT
NNNN

PAGE 3 OF 3

ACTION: DIA (ARMY ACSI)
DA IN 465341

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 22 Sep 94
BY CDR USCONI F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R

PAGE 3

54525

787


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)