Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 11/04/98
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10001-10168
RECORDS SERIES : DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC678001R PAGES 1420-1431 & 1436-1446

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USAF OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
FROM : ROBERT H. WAYLAND, JR. COL
TO :
TITLE : PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
DATE : 10/24/69
PAGES : 23
SUBJECTS : MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III
REPORT OF INVESTIGATION - CUSTOMS VIOLATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/08/95
OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY USAF
COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH USAF HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED RELEASABLE, PER MEMO DTD 13 MAY 96. CLOSING
STATEMENT ATTACHED WITH POSTPONEMENTS SECTION(B)3.

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TITLE
PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col, FR 35859, SSAN: 513-10-4236

# UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

REPORT MADE BY
JOSEPH A. CICCONE, SA mp

PERIOD
1 - 9 October 1969

REPORT MADE AT
FILE NR.
OSI District 7 07D18-1

STATUS
OFFICE OF ORIGIN
PENDING OSI District 7 DATE

CHARACTER OCT 24 1969
CUSTOMS VIOLATION

REFERENCE
ROI, OSI District 45, 17 October 1969

SYNOPSIS

Permission to interview WERBELL granted by IRS. Review of air and surface shipment records, Eglin AFB, FL, failed to disclose any information pertinent to this investigation. WERBELL interviewed by IRS. During interview WERBELL advised that firearms shipped to him by SUBJECT in April 1969 were obtained by him (WERBELL) in Vietnam and registered during amnesty period; however, no authorization was obtained to import these firearms. WERBELL stated that majority of firearms currently being held at Eglin AFB were sent at WERBELL'S request by ARPA and authorized by PATTERSON, who thought firearms were for AF museum purposes. WERBELL asserted seized firearms were sent by him to Vietnam after receiving State Department approval and were to be returned to SIONICS by Air Force. No authorization for this action was obtained by WERBELL. WERBELL advised that firearms which were not sent by him to Vietnam, and which were seized at Eglin AFB, were sent to SUBJECT for use in Air Force museums and that, to WERBELL's knowledge, Forms 6 were not filed on any of the seized firearms.

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED (AFR 124-4)

DISTRIBUTION

Comdr, Eglin AFB, FL 2
(Action)(w/atch)

Dir OSI (w/atch) 2

ATFC(IRS) Atlanta, GA 1
(Info) (w/o atch)

OSI District 6 (w/atchs) 2

File (w/atch) 2

WITHIN USAF
This is a privileged document under military law. This report may not be reproduced or given additional dissemination except as authorized by AFR 124-4. If this report is classified see also. AFR 205-1.

APPROVED

![signature of Robert H. Wayland]
ROBERT H. WAYLAND, Jr, Col, USAF
Commander

FILE STAMP

![signature and text Reviewed By AFOSI For Public Disclosure In Accordance With JFKARCA, 1992 14 AUG 95]

![signature]

OSI FORM 6 PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK IS EXHAUSTED.
MAY 62

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 2
GPO: 1965-758-092


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# 07D18-1

DETAILS:

1.  On i October 1969, Investigator WILLIAM C. GOODMAN Alcohol, Tobacco and Fire- arms Control Division, IRS, Pensacola, FL, was interviewed by SA WILLIAM D. DIXON. GOODMAN advised that as of that date, he had not received any additional information concerning the matter under investigation. GOODMAN was requested to determine if IRS would object to an interview of MITCHELL L. WERBELL III by OSI. GOODMAN advised that he would query his higher headquarters regarding the request, and subsequently, GOODMAN advised that he had spoken to his supervisor in the Atlanta office and that his agency had no objection to an interview of WERBELL, Vice-President and Director of Research and Development of Sionics.

2.  On 8 Oct 69 Mr. SHELLEY F. REEVES, CS-8, SSAN 261-50-7220, Shipment Planner, 3201st Trans Sq., EAFB, FL, advised that it was possible for a shipment to arrive at Eglin AFB without any paperwork, such as a Government Bill of Lading (GBL); however, if such shipment arrived by military air, it should be listed on the manifest of the aircraft involved. REEVES added that the Air Transportation Section is required to keep copies of aircraft manifests for one year.

3.  On 9 Oct 69 EUGENE D. LAWRENCE, MSgt, FR 407-38-0038, Director of Air Trans- portation, 3201st Trans Sq, EAFB, FL, made available to the writer copies of all military air shipment manifests for the months of Nay, June and July 1969. Review these manifests disclosed no information pertinent to this investigation.

4.  On 9 Oct 69, NAOMI J. KING, GS-5, Freight Rate Assistant, 3201st Trans Sq, EAFB, FL, made available to the writer her log of all shipments received from Charleston, SC, from Jan 69 through Jul 69. Review of all GBL's concerning these shipments failed to disclose any information pertinent to this investigation.

5.  On 9 Oct 69, WILLIAM N. GRIFFIN, Assistant Regional Commissioner, Alcohol, Tobacco andFirearms Tax Division, Internal Revenue Service, Southeast Region, Atlanta, GA, advised by letter that WERBELL had been interviewed by agents of his office on 16 Sep 69. GRIFFIN advised in summary as follows:

WERBELL stated the 11 Title II firearms shipped by SUBJECT to SIONICS on or about 11 April 1969 were obtained by WERBELL in Vietnam and registered during the amnesty period. SIONICS did not apply for or receive authorization to import these firearms. The Title II firearms received at Eglin AFB, FL during June 1969 were sent at WERBELL's request by ARPA. Col PATTERSON authorized the shipments after WERBELL had told PATTERSON that the firearms were for AF museum purposes. WERBELL reviewed the list of firearms currently being held by OSI at Eglin AFB, FL, and advised that all the sound suppressors, except the one marked HELE 4A, and the Winchester Model 52, Cal .22 rifle, SN 69494B, were the property of SIONICS and were taken or sent to Vietnam by him after approval of the shipment by the State Department. According to WERBELL, the Air Force agreed to send the weapons to Vietnam and return same to SIONICS, however, he could not produce written authorization for this action. WERBELL said the remainder of the fire- arms were to be sent to SUBJECT for the purpose of Air Force museum displays.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

07D18-1

DETAILS (Cont'd)

WERBELL related that Forus 6 were not filed on any of the firearms either by him or to his knowledge by anyone else. WEHBELL concluded that prior to the passing of the Gun Control Act of 1968, the procedures used for exporting and importing of the firearms was the acceptable method with the Statement.

A copy of the letter summarized, with inclosures, is attached to this report of investigation.

ATTACHMENTS,

1.  Reproduced copy of letter addressed to Col WAYLAND from WILLIAM N. GRIFFIN, Assistant Regional Commissioner, Southeast Region, IRS, US Treasury Department, dated 7 Oct 69, with inclosures (Letter report of Special Investigator CHARLES E. STANFILL, Atlanta, GA, dated 22 Sep 69, with Report of Interview of MITCHELL L. WERBELL III).
2.  ROI, OSI District 7, 29 Jul 69
3.  NOI, OSI District 51, 2 Sep 69
4.  ROI, OSI District 7, 24 Sep 69
5.  ROI, OSI District 50, 9 Oct 69
6.  ROI, OSI District 5, 14 Oct 69
7.  ROI, OSI District 45, 17 Oct 69

FOR COMMANDER, EGLIN AFD, FL

FOR DIR OSI

Copy of Attachment 1

FOR OSI District 6

Copy of Attachments 1 through 7.

FOR FILE

Copy of Attachment 1

PENDING


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Address any reply to: P.O. Box 926, Atlanta, Ga. 30301

US Treasur Department

Regional Commissioner
Internal Revenue Service
Southeast Region
Date: OCT 7 1969 In reply refer to: ATEA:AWS:rs

Colonel Robert H. Wayland, Jr., USAF
Department of the Air Force
OSI District 7 (HQ USAF)
Patrick Air Force Base, Florida 32925

Dear Colonel Wayland:

This refers to your letter of September 26, 1969 transmitting OSI Report of Investigation by Special Agent Grover C. Ayers, Jr. concerning Lt Col Paul Arnold Marriott.

We are attaching for your information a report submitted by Special Investigator Charles E. Stanfill concerning this investigation. Further reports will be forwarded when received.

Your cooperation is appreciated.

Sincerely yours,

William N. Griffin
Assistant Regional Commissioner
(Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms)

Enclosure

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 5

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

September 22, 1969

Chief Special Investigator
Atlanta, Georgia

Special Investigator Charles R. Stanfill
Atlanta, Georgia

Ga. L. I. 69-112 - Fle. S. I. 1176(F)

This report relates to an investigation conducted at the request of Chief Special Investigator, Jacksonville, Florida. The Office of Special Investigations, Eglin Air Force Base, Florida, in conjunction with Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Division, Pensacola, Florida, is currently conducting an investigation regarding the alleged illegal Importation of certain Title II firearms by Lt. Col. Paul A. Marriott.

On September 16, 1969, Special Investigator in Charge Arbie R. Odom, Jr. and I interviewed Mitchell L. VerBall III, at his residence in Powder Springs, Georgia. In answer to questions asked by Florida, we obtained the following informations (1) The shipment of firearms shipped by Lt. Col. Marriott on or about April 11, 1969, to Sionics, Atlanta, Georgia, contained 11 Title II firearms. These weapons were obtained by Mr. erBell in Vietnam and registered during the amnesty period. Sionice did not apply for or receive authorization to import these firearms.

(2) The additional boxes of Title II firearms received at Eglin Air Force Rasa during June 1969, were sent at the request of Mr. WerBell by ARPA, and Col. Patterson authorized the shipments after Mr. WerBell told him they were for Air Force museum purponas. Mr. Werbell was shown a list of firearms contained in the two boxes currently being held by the OSI at Eglin Air Force Base and asked to identify any belonging to Sionics. Ho stated all the sound suppressors except the one marked HELE 4A, and the winchester Model 52, caliber .22 rifle, serial number 69494B, were property of Sionics and were taken or sant to Vietnam by him. He stated these were taken over on approval of the State Department, and that the Air Force had agreed to send them to Vietnam and return them to Sionics; however, he has no written author- ization. He stated the remainder of the firearms were given to him by authorized persons, and were to be given to the Air Force to put in museums.

Before Lt. Col, Morriott left Vietnam, Mr. WerBell told him he would sttempt to obtain captured anemy weapons which he would sand to Lt. Col. Marriott for the purposes of museum displays.

1424

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

- 2-

Lt. Col. Marriott told Mr. Werbell he thought the museum would be grateful for them. Mr. Werbell stated he did not file any Forms 6 on any of the firearms and had no knowledge of anyone else filing them.

Sionics is in the business of developing and mufacturing silencers for sale to United States Military Unite and United States Allias. Although there are apparent violations of Title II of The Gun Control Act of 1968, it appeara from talking to Mr. WerBell that on the part of Sionics, thay were unintentional. Mr. Warbell stated that prior to the passing of the Gun Control Act of 1968, the procedure used in exporting and importing the firearms was the acceptable wathod with the State Department.

Charles E. Stanfill

Attachments: 14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# Ga. L. 1. 69-112 - Fla. SI 1176(P)

## REPORT OF INTERVIEW

With Mitchell L. Werbell III, on September 16, 1969, at 2:30 p. m., at his residence at RFDI, Powder Springs, Georgia, by Spacial Investigators Charles E. Stanfill and Arbie R. Odom, Jr.

This interview was conducted in the presence of Sionica President Fred N. Brown and Secretary-Treasurer Jo Florence. It was conducted in tha basement of Mr. WerDell's residence, which is used as a laboratory for research and development for Sionics. Mr. WerBell is Vice-President and Director of Research and Development of Sionics. Sionics currently hold Federal Firearms License Number 58-3742, which expires March 31, 1970, as a manufacturer of firearms other than destructive devices, and License Number 58-6156 which expires May 18, 1970, as an importer of firearms other than destructive devices. Sionics is also holder of Special Occupational Tax Stamp Return Number 1-58611 169 85398, aa a Claas 1 Manufacturor (Firearms), and Return Number 1-58611 169 85399, as a Class 1 Importor (Firearms), both issued for the period beginning July 1, 1969. Sionics was also holder of a Class 1 Manufacturer Tax Stamp for the previous year, however, they did not hold an Importers Tax Stamp. According to officials of Stonics, they were a registered importer under the Munitions and Control Act, registered with the State Department. Kr MarBell stated as follows:

Mr. WerBoll said he went to Vietnam in September of 1968 for the purpose of demonstrating "Sound Suppressora" manufactured by Sionics. Ne stated this trip is authorized by Mr. Stanford of the State Department, Munitions Control, Washington, D. C., who also authorized him to taka and send weapons and sound suppressors for demonstrations, however, he has nothing in writing from them. He stated he took soms of these wespons with him and sent the rest through the Air Force to Vietnam in care of Col. Fagen. Mr. WerBell stated that in the course of his business and travels, he was able to acquire 12 captured enemy weapons from the date of his arrival through about November of 1968. He said those weapons were given to him by General Dong of the South Vietnamese Army and by other authorized sources. He stated he sont descriptions and serial numbers of the firearms to Sionica in Atlanta, Georgia, with instructions to register them, and then asked Lt. Col. Marriott to ship them to the United States for him. He said he didn't think there was anything wrong with this procedure because of the military Involvamant, and that he didn't maka application for importation of the firearms for the same reason.

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

- 2 -

Mr. Werbell said he told Lt. Col. Marriott he could pick out any of the wanpons he wanted for the museum, and that he could take any that he had picked from the shipment when it arrived at Eglin Air Force Bano. Mr. Wornell stated he wanted the firearms for recearch purponen, except for the Chinese Rocket Launcher, which he wanted for company disрілу purposes. He stated some of the fighting units of Thailand are being furnished with captured enemy weapons, and that officials of Thailand had expressed an interest in Sound Suppressors for sama. Mr. WerBell showed us an AK-47 which had a Sionics Sound Suppressor attached. Mr. WerBall stated before Lt. Col. Marriott returned to the United States, he advised him that he would attempt to obtain other captured weapons which he would give to Lt. Col. Marriott for the purpose of displaying in a museum, and that Lt. Col. Marriott told him he thought the museum would be grateful for them. He said he was hopeful at the time that arrangements could be made to transfer any of the weapons not used by the museum to Sionics, but he cauld not recall if this had been discussed with Lt. Col. Marriott.

Mr. Werbell stated he collected numerous captured enomy weapons during the next few months, and during that time he sent them in two cases to Eglin Air Force Base in care of Lt. Col. Marriott. He stated he sent those shipments through ARPA, and that Col. Pattarcon authorized the shipments after arbell told him they were for Air Force museum purposes. Mr. CarBell again state'd he thought there was nothing wrong with this procedure at the time because of the military involvement, and for that renson did not make application for importation of the firearms. Mr. Werbell was shown a list of firearmo currently under seizure by the OSI, and ask to identify any belonging to Sionics. lle atated weapons listed were the ones sent by him to Lt. Col. Marriott and that all the listed noiso suppressors belonged to Sionica with the exception of the one marked HELE 4A, which is one he picked up that has been shot out, manufactured by a competitor. He also stated the .22 caliber Winchester M-52, serial number 69494B, with Scope, serial number 31411, belonged to Sionics. Ha stated the noise suppressors were manufactured by Sionice and either taken or sent to Vietnam by him. He stated he could not explain why ona had no serial number without examining it, however, some of the earlier models had the serial number on a front part which may have bean removed. He stated the Winchester rifle was also either taken or sent to Vietnam by him. Mr. Werbell stated as far as he was concerned, all the other fire-arus were the property of the United States Air Force, although he had hoped any that weren't used by the Air Force would be transferred to Stonics. Mr. WerBell further stated he left many firearms and suppressors in Thailand, which are in the custody of Major Stevens, 46th Group, Special Forces.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

- 3 -

He stated he was waiting instructions from Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Division before attempting to have them imported. He states most of the firearms were taken to Vietnam by him, however, some are weapons that he acquired there. (See attached list).

Mr. WerBell stated on his return to the United States he made an inventory of the firearms received from Eglin Air Force Base and found that he had made several errors when copying the serial numbers from the firearms, and thus some of the firearms had been registered on Form 4467's with wrong serial numbers. (See attached list). Mr. WerBell stated the errors were made by him, and they were made because of the condition of the numbers and the difficulty in reading them. Mr. WerBell said he had not notified the National Office of the errors, however, he would notify them now and ask instructions.

Charles E. Stanfill

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

PAUL TENGOLO MARILLOTT
bois Dora: 5 Jun 15, OK
14.002.513. 10 4326PK
ZA AFE, FL

RICHARD H. GRAHAM
16-21 October 1969

DE ORIGINA 1111

5.1.

HUG

CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS

BOX, Ost District 50, 9 October 69

07D10-1

29 October 2009

Research Projects Agency
Secretary of Defense/Advance Research
(OSD/ARPA) advised he was introducted to WERDELL during Jan 69 by COL. PATTERSON,
DARCERT, Office
Dep. Dir., RDC-T, who informed him WERBELL represented SIONICS Corp and the purpose
of his visit was to show special weapons. WERBELL produced travel orders.
Approved by American Embassy in Saigon, and authorized by Counselor for Admin
istration, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok. Orders specified travel by U.S. Military Aircraft,
between Bangkok and Saigon with small arms and automatic weapons to accompany him. During Jan 69, YOUNG, Battelle Memorial Institute
Support Mg, advised a box containing weapons was received via Military Aircraft,
shipped by U.S. Embassy, Saigon, to Bangkok, marked for attention of WERBELL.
BANGERT advised PATTERSON suggested in memorandum that weapons in
question should be shipped by Military Air to Eglin AFB, FL. marked for attention
of SUBJECT. Weapons were subsequently shipped by YOUNG per instruction of
PATHSUSON. A second box of weapons, referenced in a memorandum signed by SMSGI
to ship box to SUBJECT in same manner las first shipment. THORNE, Counselor for
THORNTON, Chief, Resources Mgt Div, reflected verbal instructions from PATTERSON
Administration, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, advised ACKERMAN, Former Counselor
apparently furnished U.S. Embassy Funding Citation for endorsement of WERBELL's
travel orders. ACKERMAN presently attending Stanford University. WONG, Counselor
and Fiscal Officer, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, furnished copies of travel orders issued
to WERBELL, and opined that. DOBBS (NFI) accompanied WERBELL during travel to
Saigon.

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 9:

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED WITHIN USAF (AFR 124-4)

061 District 7
(Comdr, Eglin AFB-Action-2)

FOSI District 19

Dep Dir 061 (PACAF)

GEORGE W. BLANK COL, USAN
Commander
1429

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# DRYATES:

2. On 16 Oct 6, Mr. WILLIAM A. BANGERT, Assistant Director for Support Management, Office of the Secretary of Defense/Advance Research Projects Agency (OSD/ARPA) was interviewed by SA GERALD A. TRIMBLE and the writer at Bangkok, Thailand. BANGERT elected to execute a signed, sworn statement the body of which is quoted verbatim as follows:

"This statement is made in response to inquiry by Special Agent Mr. Richard H. GRAHAM, Office of the Special Investigations, The Inspector General, USA, concerning the person of one Mr. Mitchell L. WerBell, and, specifically, the shipment of two (2) boxes containing assorted firearms from Bangkok, Thailand to Eglin Air Force Base, Florida. Only information based on first-hand knowledge and available records is contained in this statement."

"Statement: 1. Mr. Mitchell WerBell

"During the month of January 1969 (exact date unknown) I was introduced to Mr. Mitchell L. WerBell by Col. John V. Patterson, the former Deputy Director, RIK-T in the latter's office. Col. Patterson stated that Mr. WerBell was representing the SIONICS Corporation and the purpose of his visit was to show the Thai and U.S. staff of the Military Research and Development Center (4700) an assortment of special weapons. I attended one of several so-called indoor demonstrations given by Mr. WerBell when I noticed approximately 3 - 4 austo-made, suit-case type containers in which these weapons were transported. When I casually questioned Mr. Werbell how he got these weapons into Thailand he answered that they were flown in from Vietnam by a Thai Royal Air Force transport plane at the request of Air Chief Marshal Dawee, Supreme Command Armed Forces. Concurrently Mr. WerBell produced a set of official U.S. Government Travel Orders approved by the American Embassy in Saigon and authorized by the Counselor for Administration, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok. As I recall, these orders specified travel by U.S. Military Aircraft authorized between Bangkok and Saigon and small arms and automatic weapons to accompany passenger."

"2. Shipment of Box No. 1"

"Also during the month of January 1969 I received information from the Battelle Memorial Institute Laboratory Support Manager (EMI/LSM), Mr. Rose B. Young, that a box containing special weapons had been received in the MRIG warehouse. The box in question had been shipped via Military Aircraft by the U.S. Embassy in Saigon to RDC-T Bangkok, Attn: Mr. WerBell, SIONICS. The Transportation and Movement Document DD Form 1384 listed the contents of the box as "official equipment".

"On 28 January 1969, I notified Mr. Ross B. Young (EMI/LSM) in writing that RDC-T had no contractual connections with the SIONICS Corporation, did not desire to store the equipment, shipped by the U.S. Embassy in Saigon, and therefore, to return the shipment to the vendor via the Transportation Officer, Dobbins Air Force Base, Marietta, Georgia."

2

1430

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
RUB
14 AUG 95

NW 88613 DocId:34530443 Page 12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# 07218-1

"On 31 January 1969, Mr. Ross B. Young, BMI/LSM acknowledged my 28 January 1969 memo cited above in writing and notified me that the requested shipment to the vendor via the Transportation Officer, Dobbins Air Force Base could not be accomplished because of the lack of official documentation required to effect shipment. I instructed Mr. Young verbally not to take any further action until appropriate disposition of the contents of the box in question had been resolved."

"On 3 February 1969, Col. John V. Patterson, Deputy Director, RDO-T suggested in a memorandum to Mr. Young and me that the box in question should be shipped via Military Air Transport (MAT) to Commander, Air Force Armament Laboratory, (DOL-AFSC) Eglin Air Force Base, Florida, Attention: Lt. Col. Paul A. Larriot, FR35859. In the same memorandum Col. John V. Patterson stated that he would attest to the nature and official aspects of this equipment. Several days later I learned from Mr. Ross Young that he had effected the shipment of Box 1 to Eglin Air Force Base on the basis of the instructions received from Col. John V. Patterson. (See Memorandum for the Record, Subject: Shipment of Weapons to A.F. Armament Laboratory, Eglin AFB, Florida, of June 13, 1969, signed: Ross B. Young.)"

## "3. Shipment of Box No. 2

"A second box, allegedly containing assortment of firearms was delivered to the MEDC warehouse on or about 10 May 1969, according to the Memorandum for the Record of June 13, 1969, signed Ross B. Young. During this time I was on TDY in the U.S. and can only reference available documentation concerning the shipment of this box to Eglin AFB. According to the memorandum cited above, the Ail Laboratory Support Manager, Mr. Ross B. Young was advised by the Deputy Director, RDC-T to ship this box in the same manner similar to Box 1. With the permission of William R. Thompson, Senior Master Sergeant, USAF, I attach a memorandum for AD/PM, Subject: Shipment of Box Containing Armaments to Armaments Laboratory Eglin AFB., dtd 16 June 1969, Signed: William R. Thompson, SMSgt, USAF which was received by me upon return from the U.S."

Any errors in the above statement were typed from the original, which is being retained by CSI District 7, available to proper authority upon request. In addition to the above, BANGERT furnished a reproduced copy of the above described memorandum signed by SMSGT WILLIAM R. THOMPSON, which is quoted verbatim as follows:

AD/PM- WRT:ml

16 June 1969

"MEMORANDUM FOR: The Assistant Director for
Program Management, RDC-T

SUBJECT: Shipment of Box Containing
Armaments to Armaments
Laboratory, Eglin Air Force Base."


Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# TITLE

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col. 513 10 4326FR
Eglin AFB, FL

# C

UNITED SES AIR FORCE
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS

# REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

REPORT MADE BY SA
LAWRENCE K. HARPER

STATUS
is

PERIOD
12 Nov 1969
RUC

OFFICE OF ORIGIN REPORT MADE AT
OSI DIST 7 OSI DIST 19
FILE NO.
07D18-1

DATE
18 NOV 1969

# CHARACTER

CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS

REFERENCE
ROI, OSI District 51, 29 Oct 1969

XXXXXX DETAILS:
On 12 November 1969, KARL D. ACKERMAN (former Counselor for Administration,
United States Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand), 99 Victoria Drive, Atherton, California,
was interviewed by SA ROBERT J. NOVACK and the writer, and related substantially as follows:

ACKERMAN had several conversations with Colonel WALTER ADAMS concerning the practical problems of getting weapons, belonging to a MITCHELL L. WERBELL, into Thailand from the Republic of Vietnam in order that WERBELL could put on a fire power demonstration for the King of Thailand's birthday. At all times during these conversa- tions, ACKERMAN assumed the weapons were WERBELL's wares, and that he had brought them from the United States with him. With this in mind, ACKERMAN stated that he instructed Mr. GERALD T. CARTA to annotate WERBELL's travel orders with a Bangkok United States Embassy Funding Citation number. ACKERMAN said the citation numbers were in a block of numbers belonging to the Embassy, and because he did not feel he had the authority to issue WERBELL any other type of number, he issued him an Embassy number. When ACKERMAN was asked if he knew PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT, he said the name was vaguely familiar but could not recall anything further. When ACKERMAN was asked if he knew EARLENE DOBBS, he stated that he did not, to the best of his knowledge. ACKERMAN stated that his knowledge of WERBELL came solely from ADAMS and other stories he heard around the Embassy of the fire power demonstration to be given for the King. ACKERMAN stated he had no personal knowledge of WERBELL.

REFERRED UPON COMPLETION TO OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DISTRIBUTION
OSI Dist 7

Comdr, Elgin AFB, FL-
Action - 2

DIR OSI

FILE

OSI FORM DEC 68 6b PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK IS EXHAUSTED.

# SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED WITHIN USAF (AFR 124-4)

4 This is a privileged document under mili- tary law. This report may not be repro- duced or given additional dissemination ex- cept as authorized by AFR 124-4. If this report is classified see also. AFR 205-1.

APPROVED
FOR THE COMMANDER

ROBERT J. DEAN, Lt Col, USAP
2 Chief, Criminal Inves Div

1

OSI DIST

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
WASHINGTON, D.C.

![Department of Defense Logo]

REPLY TO
ATTN OF: AFISIGA (07D18-1)

SUBJECT: Paul Arnold Marriott, Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK, Lt Col,
513-10-4236FR, Eglin AFB, FL

TO: Industrial Security Clearance Review Division (Mr. W. J. Scanlon)
Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Administration)

Reference is made to the Directorate letter of 6 October 1969. Attached
for your information is a pending report of investigation which reflects
the results of further investigation by OSI.

L. L. FREE, Colonel USAF
Deputy Director for Operations
Directorate of Special Investigations
The Inspector General

1 Atch
OSI ROI, DO 50, 07D18-1,
dtd 9 Oct 69

![Illegible text]

![Stamp Reviewed By AFOSI For Public Disclosure In Accordance With JFKARCA, 1992]

Underwrite Your Country's Might - Buy U.S. Savings Bonds

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

TITLE

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col, 513 10 4236FR
Eglin AFB, FL

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS

REPORT MADE BY SA

JEROME J. CASTELUCIO

PERIOD
STATUS

20-24 September 1969
RUC

OFFICE OF ORIGIN REPORT MADE AT
FILE NO.
OSI DIST 7 OSI DIST 50
07D18-1

DATE
9 October 1969

CHARACTER

CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS

REFERENCE

ROI, OSI District 51, 2 Sep 69

SYNOPSIS

Information re: WERBELL, as contained in files of OSI District 50, obtained and set forth. CARTA advised WERBELL, during Jan 69, requested his assistance in shipping various captured enemy automatic weapons and official equipment from Saigon to Bangkok. WERBELL was traveling on a U. S. Invitational Travel Order, without funding citation, authorizing space available travel only from Bangkok to Saigon and return. CARTA stated WERBELL told him he had collected the weapons while in northern sectors of RVN, with U. S. Army Airborne and Special Forces units. Packaging and preparation of Transportation Control and Movement Documents (TCMD) were prepared by U.S. Embassy, Saigon. CARTA did not know why one TCMD reflected antique arms when contents were known to be automatic weapons. CARTA received authorization and funding citation number for WERBELL's shipment from the Counselor for Administration, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok. This was only shipment processed by CARTA for WERBELL. CARTA did not know of or process any shipments for SUBJECT and/or SIONICS, INC.

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED WITHIN USAF (AFR 124-4)

DISTRIBUTION

DO 7 (Comdr, Eglin AFB-
Action-2)

DO 51

Dep Dir OSI (PACAF)

DIR OSI

> This is a privileged document under military law. This report may not be reproduced or given additional dissemination except as authorized by AFR 124-4. If this report is classified see also AFR 205-1.

APPROVED

![signature of ROBERT B. PRITCHARD]

ROBERT B. PRITCHARD, Lt Col, USAF
Deputy Commander

OSI DIST

![signature]

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95.

FILE

OSI FORM 6b PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK IS EXHAUSTED.
DEC 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# 07D18-1

DETAILS

1.  On 20 September 1969, Mr. GERALD T. CARTA, Staff Operations Officer, U.S. Embassy, Saigon, Republic of Vietnam (RVN), was interviewed with the assistance of SA RONALD A. CUNDIFF and provided the following information:

During early January 1969, a Mr. MITCHELL WERBELL, a senior officer in an American firm (NFI), came to his office requesting assistance in shipping one or two cartons of captured automatic weapons to Bangkok, Thailand. WERBELL stated that he was a weapons expert and was in the RVN on invitation from the U.S. Government to demonstrate some of his new weapon accessory inventions to the military services of the RVN and Thailand. WERBELL indicated that he had just spent the last 2-4 weeks in various northern sectors of the RVN, with U.S. Army Airborne and Special Forces units. During this period WERBELL had collected various captured enemy automatic weapons. He advised that he needed these weapons for examination, in that he was in the process of designing a new automatic weapon that would far surpass the capabilities of the best foreign made automatic weapon. WERBELL produced an Invitational Travel Order, issued by the USAF Air Attache, Bangkok, Thailand. This travel order was approved by the Counselor for Administration (CFA), U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand. This travel order authorized WERBELL to travel, on a space available basis, from Thailand to the RVN and return. The travel order did not reflect a funding citation, which is necessary to ship any large items aboard a military aircraft. WERBELL stated that he had attempted to ship these weapons aboard military aircraft stationed at Tan Son Nhut AB (TSNAB), RVN, however, because his orders did not reflect the necessary funding citation, he was sent to the U.S. Embassy. WERBELL indicated he was going to use these captured weapons in a fire power demonstration, to be held for the King of Thailand on his birthday, which was on the following Saturday. WERBELL stated he was a personal friend of the King and Queen of Thailand and numbered among his friends many high ranking military and civilian officials of the Thai government. CARTA placed a long distance call to the CFA, U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand. The CFA advised that WERBELL was expected in Thailand by the King for a weapon demonstration, to be held on the King's birthday. The CFA was informed that WERBELL wanted to ship one or two heavy cartons to Thailand. The CFA then gave CARTA the Bangkok U.S. Embassy funding citation, with instructions to have same added to WERBELL'S travel orders. He then asked the CFA: "Do you know what he wants to ship?" and the CFA replied: "Yes, it's okay". After this conversation the weapons were packed, along with some items of official equipment, as identified by WERBELL. Transportation Control and Movement Documents were executed and signed by CARTA. The U.S. Embassy, Bangkok, Thailand, funding citation was reflected on these documents. At no time did CARTA examine the contents of the boxes. CARTA identified the Transportation Control and Movement Documents reflected as attachments 1 and 3, ROI, D07, 2 Sep 69, as the ones executed and signed by him. CARTA could provide no explanation as to why one of the Transportation Control and Movement Documents (Atch 1) reflected the contents as antique arms. CARTA stated that he knew of no other shipments of firearms that had been processed by WERBELL. He concluded that he does not know SUBJECT, nor has he ever processed any shipments under SUBJECT's name or for SIONICS, INC.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

07D18-1

2. On 24 September 1969, a review by SA CUNDIFF of case file 50D24G-133, of which WERBELL is the SUBJECT, revealed the following information:

WERBELL was in the RVN in an unofficial status, with the concurrence of ASD, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH, to demonstrate a noise and flash suppressor assembly for the M-16 rifle, as well as other firearms equipment. He possessed no security clearance. He was to demonstrate his equipment only in the RVN and was then to return to the U.S. Upon his arrival in the RVN, he was given a Military Assistance Command Vietnam (MACV) Identification and Privilege Card (MACV Form 6) for use while in country. The application for this card was filled out by Col WILLIAM M. FAGAN, Commander, Det 6, ASD, TSNAB, RVN. The card, to expire Mar 69, was only to reflect WERBELL was to have BX privileges, and no grade or rank was reflected intentionally. The card that was finally issued reflected equivalent rank of GS-16 and gave WERBELL postal, BX, commissary and check privileges for a period of one year, to Sep 69. The application form was adjusted to show this and someone other than FAGAN placed FAGAN's initials in the appropriate blocks to obtain these privileges.

SUBJECT was the individual who met WERBELL upon his arrival in country, and who took care of getting his weapons registered in accordance with MACV directives. SUBJECT also set up the demonstrations WERBELL was to give.

At the conclusion of the demonstrations, rather than return to the U.S., WERBELL traveled to Bangkok and Korea, utilizing his MACV ID card and dropping names of alleged acquaintances of high reputation in order to show his equipment in those countries. FAGAN obtained the MACV ID card from WERBELL in Bangkok on 8 May 69.

3. On 24 September 1969, a review by SA CUNDIFF of 50D24G-0/86 revealed the following information concerning WERBELL:

FAGAN advised that in Jan 69, WERBELL stated he had captured weapons he wanted to ship back. FAGAN told him he would help through legitimate channels if the weapons were for a government agency; otherwise, he would ship back only the equipment WERBELL brought over. FAGAN heard no more from WERBELL until early Feb 69, when WERBELL stated he was ready to leave and would bring the items to be shipped. He was told by FAGAN to bring the items in an open box, which would be sealed at the aerial port.

FAGAN was unable to locate WERBELL after that meeting until 8 May 69, when he located WERBELL in Bangkok to retrieve the MACV ID card. WERBELL requested FAGAN to ship some gear from Saudi, Arabia, to the U.S. FAGAN again replied he would ship back only the original equipment from TSNAB.

The files contained no further information pertinent to the present investigation.

REFERRED UPON COMPLETION TO OFFICE OF ORIGIN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
WASHINGTON, D.C.

6 OCT 1969

REPLY TO
ATTN OF: AFISIGA (07D18-1)

SUBJECT: Paul Arnold Marriott, Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Colonel, 513-10-4236FR, Eglin AFB, FL

TO: Industrial Security Clearance Review Division (Mr. W.J. Scanlon)
Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Administration)

1. Reference is made to the Directorate letter of 20 August 1969, concerning Subject, and to your letter of 22 August 1969, regarding Mitchell L. Werbell III. Attached for your information is a *pending report* of investigation reflecting further inquiries by OSI.

2. You may note that on 5 August 1969, a representative of the Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Control Division, Internal Revenue Service (IRS), advised that his agency had initiated an investigation concerning the involvement of Sionics, Inc., in this matter. The IRS representative indicated too, that they proposed to interview Mr. Werbell in the near future and would furnish OSI with the results, including copies of any statements provided. On 2 October 1969, OSI was advised by IRS that they had not as yet interviewed Mr. Werbell, but in view of the USAF interest in resolving this matter expeditiously, would not now interpose any objection to OSI interviewing Werbell.

3. You will be furnished the results of this interview as soon as it is completed together with any other pertinent information made available by IRS or obtained by OSI.

FOR THE CHIEF OF STAFF

![signature of L. L. FREE, Colonel USAF]

L. L. FREE, Colonel USAF
Deputy Director for Operations
Directorate of Special Investigations
The Inspector General

1 Atch
ROI, DO 7, 07D18-1,
dtd 3 Sep 69, w/atch

Underwrite Your Country's Might - Buy U.S. Savings Bonds

![Reviewed By AFOSI For Public Disclosure In Accordance With JFKARCA, 1992 14 AUG 95:]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
## REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col, 513-10-4236 FR
Eglin AFB, FL

REPORT MADE BY
WILLIAM D. DIXON, SA

PERIOD
28 Jul - 27 Aug 69

STATUS
PENDING

OFFICE OF ORIGIN
OSI District 7

REPORT MADE AT
OSI District 7

FILE NR.
07018-1

CHARACTER
CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS

DATE SEP 03 1969

REFERENCE
ROI, DO 7, 29 Jul 69

SYNOPSIS

SUBJECT furnished previously prepared, notarized statement, on 26 July 1969, in which he stated substantially the same as in his verbal statement of 17 July 1969. Representative of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Division, IRS, advised his agency had initiated investigation concerning the involvement of SIONICS, Inc., in this matter. Commander, Air Force Armament Laboratory, Eglin AFB, FL advised that they have no contract with SIONICS nor does SUBJECT have authority to ship weapons to SIONICS. ARNOLD and COOLEY advised that weapons are shipped by serial number and denied advising SUBJECT to list weapons as "miscellaneous equipment". BEAUDOIN informed SUBJECT of proper procedure for shipment of weapons. DAVIS advised that AFATL has no contract with SIONICS or any requirement to send weapons to SIONICS.

SPECIAL HANDLING/REQUIRED (AFR 124-4)

WITHIN USAF

DISTRIBUTION

FILE STAMP

Comdr, Eglin AFB
(Action) (w/atch)
2

This is a privileged document under military law. This report may not be reproduced or given additional dissemination except as authorized by AFR 124-4. If this report is classified see also AFR 205-1.

Dir 051 (w/atch)
2

APPROVED

ATFC (IRS) Atlanta,
(Info) (w/atch)
1

![signature]

US Custass, Mobile
(Info) (w/atch)
1

ROBERT H. WAYLAND, JR, Col, USAF
Commander

File (w/atch)
2

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
![signature]
14 AUG 95

OSI FORM
MAY 62

PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF THIS FORM WILL BE USED UNTIL STOCK IS EXHAUSTED.

NW 88613 DocId:34530443 Page 20
GPO: 1965-758-092


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# 07D18-1

DETAILS

1.  On 28 July 1969, SUBJECT Voluntarily appeared at 051 Detachment 710. Eglin AFB, FL and released a previcusly prepared signed, notarized, undated statement pertinent portions of which are set forth as follows:

My assignment is Assistant to the Commander of the Air Force Arma- ment Laboratory. I am responsible for many staff duties, the following of which bear directly upon my official actions which were taken in connection with the matter being investigated. (These, of course, are known by Colonel Hartin). Although SIOMICS never has made a sale to the Air Force Armanent Laboratory, or been awarded a contract by the lab, they are working on developments related to laboratory require- ments and continue to try to come up with attractive proposals. They are welcome to keep working to meet our requirements as are other con- tractors who naturally try to make sales.

As APSC munitions specialist in SEA for the second tour, during 1969, I was directed officially to work with SIGNICS in the combat theater. The AFSO Liaison detachment was requested by its chain-of- command supervisor, Colonel Louis Schaffer, AFSC Assistant for Limited War, Hq ASD (ASJ), WPAFB, to afford the SIONICS representative every assistance to include assisting him to get materials in and out of the country (Vietnam), to introduce him to units in the theater to whom he could demonstrate SIGNICS itens developed to use in combat, to advise and assist him in obtaining quarters and transportation, and in short, to assist him in every way to perform his mission. The recipient of this direction was Colonel William Fagan, Commander of the AFSC Liaison Detachment and my boss in SEA.

The facts in this paragraph are set down only because of the nature of the questions raised by the OSI. First, why did we telephone SIONICS? to have a
We have already mentioned the base defense proposal SIONICS wishes to submit and for which they made advance queries. In addition to this subject, SIONICS called frequently to find out if we had received evaluations through the SEA liaison office of the items placed through- out the combat theater as previously explained. Many of these were still outstanding when I left Vietnam. We checked to see if any had been received after each call and called back. Sometimes we were out when called and were requested to call back. Also, of course, there were calls about the shipments. Second, what are our personal relations with SIONICS? AFSC liaison office in SEA and for the Armament Lab as herein explained. My actions have been directed and authorized or no special or unusual favors have been done for SIONICS. I have had only one social contact with Mr. Brown. A few weeks ago, the Brons

2

1443


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

07016-1

DETAILS Contd

(of SIONICS) took us to an Atlanta Braves-Los Angeles Dodgers base-ball game and the next evening we invited them to dinner as our guest at the Marriott Hotel. We spent more on then than they had on us. We have many contractor friends and acquaintances and are very careful to go "Dutch" in social affairs. This is the standard and the require-ment for military people who have dealings with contractors. Regulations prohibit us from accepting any form of gratuity so we make certain we go more than half way in meeting social obligations. We have no especial relations or connections with SIONICS or any other contractor, nor has SIONICS ever suggested or hinted we have any. Further SIONICS has never demonstrated or hinted at any tendency to evade laws, licenses or other requirements.

The original of the above statement is being retained in the files of OSI District 7 and will be available to proper authority upon request. A reproduced copy of the statement is appended to this report as an attachment.

2. On 5 August 1969, Mr. ROBERT CORBIN, Investigator, Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Control Division, Internal Revenue Service, Pensacola, FL, telephonically advised that his agency had initiated an investigation concerning the involvement of SIONICS, Inc in this matter but that results of their inquiry were not yet available. CORBIN advised that his agency would furnish the results of their investigation upon com pletion.

3. On 20 August 1969, William COODMAN, Special Investigator, Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Control Division, Internal Revenue Services, Pensacola, Florida advised Special Agent Grover C. Ayers, Jr. that investigation being conducted by his service is continuing; however, he has not received any additional information from the Atlanta, Ca Office. He advised that upon receipt of additional information it would immediately be made available to OSI.

4. On 22 August 1969, ABNER B. MARTIN, Colonel, SSAN: 251-30-1478FR, Commander, Air Force Armament Laboratory (AFATL), Eglin AFB, FL was interviewed at his duty station and advised substantially as follows: AFATL developes all types of weapons for the USAF, but very few small arms are required, therefore there is litt le activity in the small arms area. At the present AFATL is developing a survival weapon which is in the small arms area. SUBJECT, as a representative of AFATL while on TDY in SEA could send captured enemy weapons of any type or quantity to AFATL for test purposes, based on his judgment, if he followed ostablished procedures which would include notifying AFATL that such weapons were being sent back. Colonel MARTIN stated that to the best of his knowledge AFATL received no indication or notification that any such weapons were being sent to APATL. Colonel MARTIN further stated that the onezy weapons in this case could conceivably be used either


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

07018-1

DETAILS Contd

in testing or as museum pieces. Colonel MARTIN also said that he
felt it unusual that SUBJECT would have such frequent telephonic con-
versations with SIONICS at government expense. Colonel MARTIN further
stated that the AFATL has no contract with SIONICS, nor has the USAF
ever had any contract with SIONICS and SUBJECT had no authority to ship
any weapons to SIONICS for any purpose.

5. On 27 August 1969, CLARENCE M. COOLEY, 08-9, SSAN 505-32-7744,
   Logistics Officer, AFATL (ATDA-Log), was reinterviewed at Eglin AFB,
   FL, and advised that when weapons are shipped by his office, they are
   always listed by serial number, and he at no time told SUBJECT that
   he should list a shipment of weapons as *"miscellaneous equipment"*.
   COOLEY further stated that to the best of his knowledge no shipments
   are made from AFATL to a non-contractor.

6. On 27 August 1969, PAUL (NHN) ARNOLD, SSgt, FR489-38-5452, Logistics
   Office, APATL, Eglin AFB, FL, was reinterviewed at his duty station and
   advised that at no time did he advise SUBJECT that a shipment of weapons
   could be listed as *"miscellaneous equipment"*. ARNOLD further stated
   that weapons are always shipped by serial number, in accordance with
   the SOP which so specifies.

7. On 27 August 1969, EUCLIDE P. BEAUDOIN, GS-12, SSAN: 087-14-3917,
   Staff Transportation Office, 3201st Transportation Squadron, Eglin AFD,
   FL, advised at his duty station that sometime subsequent to 15 July
   1969, SUBJECT telephoned him at his office and inquired as to the pro-
   per procedures for shipping material to Air Force Contractors; and if
   a memorandum signed by a *"responsible officer"* would serve as justifi-
   cation for the shipment. BEAUDOIN stated that he advised SUBJECT that
   any property being sent at government expense to a contractor had to be
   contractorally authorized prior to being shipped and to have been
   cleared through the base contracting office. BEAUDOIN stated that he
   further advised SUBJECT that the justification should contain the state-
   ment that the item being shipped was government property and that
   receipt of the material being sent by the contractor was advantageous
   to the government.

8. On 27 August 1969, DALE N. DAVIS, GS-15, SSAN: 232-42-3600, Technical
   Director of Cuns and Rockets, AFATL, Eglin AFB, FL was interviewed at
   his duty station and advised that prior to Colonel PINKSTON's retirement
   he had worked in the same facility with him. DAVIS further advised that
   as early as April or May 1967, his facility had been experimenting with
   noise supressors manufactured by SIONICS, which were furnished to AFATL
   at no expense to the government for evaluation. DAVIS also stated that

1445

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
![Reviewed By AFOSI For Public Disclosure In Accordance With JFKARCA, 1992]
14 AUG 95

NW 88613 Docld:34530443 Page 23


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

07018-1

DETAILS Conta

APATL has no contract with SIOGICS nor does he know of any plans to enter into a contract with SIONICS, due to the fact that the Air Force has no need at this time for noise supressors. DAVIS added that in his opinion AFATL would need not more than one of each type of foreign weapon for evaluation by AFATL and he knew of no requirement to send any weapons to SIONICS.

ATTACHMENT

1. Reproduced copy of signed, notarized, undated statement furnished by SUBJECT on 28 July 1969.

FOR ALL DISTRIBUTEES

Copy of attachment

PENDIEC


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)