Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 03/07/96
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10007-10417
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: X1332650W - PAGES 487-488

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE: AGENT REPORT
DATE : 04/22/70
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : NAGELL, RICHARD C.

TRINKALA, VICTOR L

MILITARY SERVICE

UNDERAGE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/09/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: EXHIBITS INDEXED SEPARATELY.

NW 88613 Docld:34529648 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

TRINKALA, Victor L.
DPOB: 28 November 1950, Rochester, Pa.
PVT 186 42 1155

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

2. DATE SUBMITTED

22 April 1970

3. CONTROL SYMEOL OR FILE NUMBER

9321 6006

(MILITARY SERVICE) On 22 April 1970, James Hutchinson, Sergeant,
United States Army, Personnel Interviewer, Personal Action Branch (PAB), Over-
Seas Replacement Station (ORS), United States Army Personnel Center (USAPC),
Pakland Army Base (OAB), Dakland, California, was interviewed concerning
Victor L. TRINKALA. Hutchinson, who interviewed TRINKALA several times prior
to HIS discharge, stated substantially the following:

Hutchinson first met TRINKALA on 8 November 1969, when HE requested
to be interviewed by the PAB, ORS; because HE wes seventeen years old and HE
did not want to go to the Republic of Viet Nam (RVN). A copy of the inter-
viow request is attached to the original copy of this agent's report as
EXHIBIT. SUBJECT stated that He had lied about HIS age to get into the
Army, had changed HIS mind about the Army, and did not want to go to RVN.
Source was of the impression that SUBJECT had heard from someone that if HE
were under 18 years old, HE would not have to go to RVN. SUBJECT was told
by Source that even though HE was under 18 years old, HE would be sent to RVN
after HIS 18th birthday which was just 20 days away. SUBJECT was questioned
by Source as to how HE managed to get into the Army when HE was under 18 years
old with out parental consent. SUBJECT stated that the US Army Recruiter was
knowledgeable of HIS age but assured SUBJECT that he could "fix it up" so that
HE could enlist with out parental consent. SUBJECT was told by Source that HE
would have to provide conclusive evidence that HE was under 18 years old,
otherwise HE would be shipped to RVN. The interview was terminated at this
point and SUBJECT wes to return on 10 November 1969, pending verification of
HIS age.

On 13 November 1969, Source received a message from Sixth Army Head-
quarter (EXHIBIT) through the Message Center (CIC), USAPC, CAB, requesting
that SUBJECT'S orders to RVN be cancelled pending advisement from the Depart-
ment of the Army and at the request of one R. C. Nagell, former Captain,
Special Agent, Counter Intelligence Corps. This message was sent to Sixth
Army-Headquarters by way of Western Union Telegraph Company (WUTC) from New
York, Jew York, by R. C. Nagell. Source was not too concerned with this re
quest because SUBJECT was already on "hold status" pending verification of
HIS age. This was the first time Source had heard of R. C. Nagell.

On 14 November 1969, Source received a message from the MC, USAPC,
that was sent by way of WUTC from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, from SUBJECT'S
mother, Mrs. Dorothy Trinkala, 202 Basco Street, Pittsburgh, a copy of which
is attached to this agent's report as EXHIBIT. The message stated that
SUBJECT was not of age and HIS mother did not give her consent for HIM to
join the Army. SUBJECT was then, called in for another interview and HE was
asked to have a registered letter sent to USAPC with HIS birth certificate

![image of an illegible number]

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

JACK A. REYNOLDS, 115th MI GP (I AL)

6. SIGHATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![Signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

TRINKALA, Victor L.
DPOB: 28 November 1950, Rochester, Pa.
PVT 185 42 1155

2. DATE SUBMITTED

22 April 1970

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

9321 6006

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

or positive evidence of HIS age. SUBJECT stated that HE would comply with this request and the interview was terminated.

On 18 November 1969, Source recieved a telephone call from LTC Parker, Chief of Military Personnel Division, Sixth Army Headquarters, Presidio of San Francisco, California, (EXHIBIT) stating that one Nagell, former Captein, Special Agent, with Counter Intelligence, urged that SUBJECT'S orders to RVN be cancelled. Parker did not explain why Nagell wanted the crders to be cancelled. Source was instructed to find out who Nagell was by talking to SUBJECT. SUBJECT was consequently called in for another interview by the former Officer In Charge, CWO Walter Girvin, 456-48-8128, 22d Administration Company (Finance), Americal Division, APO San Francisco 96374, Source was not positive if Girvin ever talked to SUBJECT. Source interviewed SUBJECT and asked HIM who Nagell was. SUBJECT replied that Nagell was a relative and a former Army Captain. SUBJECT was apprehensive when talking about Nagell.

On 24 or 25 November 1969, Source received a registered letter from SUBJECT'S mother. The letter contained a copy of SUBJECT'S birth certificate and a note in long hand, apparently written by HIS mother, stating that she did not want SUBJECT to go to RVN nor remain in the Army. The birth certif- icate was a copy of the original and Source did not remember seeing a raised spal of any kind on the certificate. The copy of the birth certificate was apparently considered to be official, because SUBJECT was transferred to Transient Company to be discharged. Source was confident that the correspond ence from Nagell played no part in SUBJECT getting discharged, although it did confuse the matter and brought it to the attention of the personnel work- ing in PAB, ORS, USAPO.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

JACK A. REYNOLDS, 115th KI-GP (IAL)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

NW 88613 Docld:34529648 Page 3

488


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)