Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 03/07/96
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10007-10424
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : X1332650W - PAGE 502

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED]
TO :
TITLE : AGENT REPORT
DATE : 02/25/70
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : NAGELL, RICHARD C.

TRINKALA, VICTOR L.

CHARACTER REFERENCE

SWORN STATEMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/09/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : SWORN STATEMENT INDEXED SEPARATELY.

NW 88613 DocId:34529655 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   TRINKALA, Victor Lee
   DPOB: 28 November 1950; Rochester, Pa.
   PVT - 185 42 1155

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   25 February 1970

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   9321 - 6006

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(SUBJECT INTERVIEW) On 19 February 1970, Victor Lee TRINKALA, Unemployed, address of residence, 127 West 43d Street, Room 301, Manhattan, New York 10036, was interviewed under oath at Region I, 108th Military Intelligence Group, Room 1332, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, New York 10007, concerning HIS character, suitability, and unswerving loyalty to the United States. TRINKALA, after indicating HIS complete and full understanding of the purpose and necessity of the interview, consented to be interviewed, allowed the interview to be tape recorded, and was duly sworn. TRINKALA furnished a Sworn Statement (DA Form 2823), a copy of which is attached hereto as EXHIBIT, containing the information disclosed by HIM during the interview of which HE signed on 24 February 1970 at 206 West 43d Street, Manhattan, New York 10036. SUBJECT requested and receipted for a copy of HIS Sworn Statement, copy of Receipt of Statement attached hereto as EXHIBIT.

AGENT'S NOTES: SUBJECT was reluctant to answer questions. It is the opinion of the undersigned Agent that TRINKALA was evasive throughout the interview. Special Agent James H. Raymond, Region I, 108th Military Intelligence Group, was present throughout the interview and concurs with the above remarks.

5. TYPEI

JANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGEND

T. LO PHERSOL 100th MI Gr (I-STB)

6. SIGH/VURE OF SPECIAL, AGENT

NW 88613 Docld:34529655 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)