JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 07/25/96
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10013-10155
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ZF000003W - PAGES 1208-1209

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : SSO
TO : SSO MEADE
TITLE : MESSAGE
DATE : 09/07/82
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : SLVODA, VLADIMIR
WHITE, JOSEPH T.
MILITARY PERSONNEL FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : PAGES 1208-1209 WERE REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 22 SEP 94.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

****************************************************************

****************************************************************

ZCZCRPQ530
DAN: 296-010206
INPUT COSN : KDA807
TOR: 071935Z SEP 82 TOT: 071935Z SEP 82

PAGE 1

OTTMZYUW 'YWOALD 0025: 2501931-MNSH--YEKDOO.
ZNY MMNSH
ZKZK 00 SOA DE
0 071210Z SEP 82 ZYH
FM SSO LVNNORTH
TO SSO MEADE:
INFO SSO INSCOM
SSO SAM
SSO DA//DAMI-CIC//
ZEM

![press- has seen]

QQQQ
HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS: SSO MEADE PASS TO CDR, 902D MIGP//IAGPA-OP// SSO SAM PASS TO
SSO INSCOM PASS INFO TO CDR, USAINSCOM//IAOPS-P//. SSO IS
S3, CI/SIGSEC SPT BN, 902D MIGP//IAGPA-B=OP//.
SUBJECT: WHITE, JOSEPH TIMOTHY
PFC, 492-60-2196
DPOB: 5 NOV 61, ST LOUIS, MO

1. ON 1 SEP 82, THE RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS (ROTC) MILITARY PERSONNEL FILE OF JOSEPH TIMOTHY WHITE, PFC 492-60-2196, LOCATED AT THE KEMPER MILITARY COLLEGE, BOONVILLE, MO 65233 WAS FURNISHED BY JOHN E PARKER, LTC, INF, PROFESSOR OF MILITARY SCIENCE AND DISCLOSED THE FOLLOWING.

A. WHITE ENROLLED IN THE KEMPER MILITARY COLLEGE (KMC) ON 9 JUNE 1980 WITH THE ROTC PROGRAM.

B. WHITE ATTENDED BASIC CAMP FROM 9 JUN 80 TO 14 JUL 80 AT FTNOX, KY 40121. ON 15 JUN 80, WHITE WAS APPREHENDED BY THE FT KNOX MILITARY POLICE (MP) AND CHARGED WITH A UNIFORM VIOLATION AND DISOBEYING A LAWFUL GENERAL ORDER. (MP. REPORT WITH HANDWRITTEN STATEMENT BY WHITE FORWARDED UNDER SEPARATE COVER). WHITE WAS HELD AT MP STATION FOR APPROXIMATELY 2 HOURS, AT WHICH TIME HE WAS RELEASED TO HIS UNIT, COMPANY B, 4TH BRIGADE, 15TH BATTALION, FT KNOX, KY.

C. ON 12 FEB 81, WHITE ENLISTED IN THE US ARMY NATIONAL GUARD, FOR A PERIOD OF SIX (6) YEARS, WHITE WAS ASSIGNED TO BATTERY C, 1ST BATTALION, 128TH FIELD ARTILLERY, MARSHALL, MO 65340.

****************************************************************

****************************************************************

![REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED]

NW 88613 Docld:34531366 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

PAGE 2

D. WHITE BEGAN STUDIES AT KMC IN SEPTEMBER 1981. SUBJECT'S SCHOLAS-
TIC RECORD CDA FORM 131, FORWARDED UNDER SEPARATE COVER) INDICATED
"B" AVERAGE FOR THE SCHOOL YEAR 80-81.

E. WHITE ATTENDED ADVANCED CAMP FROM 5 JUN 81 TO 15 JUL 81 AT FT
RILEY, KS, ON 13 JUL 81 A BOARD OF OFFICERS WAS CONVENED UNDER THE
PROVISIONS OF AR 15-6, AR 145-1 AND TRADOC REG 145-1 IN ORDER TO
DETERMINE IF SUBJECT SHOULD BE DISMISSED FROM THE CAMP DUE TO HIS POOR
PERFORMANCE, A COPY OF THE BOARD PROCEEDINGS WITH SWORN STATEMENTS
FORWARDED UNDER SEPARATE COVER.

F. WHITE WAS GRANTED A SECRET CLEARANCE, ON 10 SEP 81, BASED UPON A
NATIONAL AGENCY CHECK.

G. ON 15 SEP 81, SUBJECT WAS DISENROLLED FROM THE ROTC PROGRAM AT
KMC FOR FAILURE TO ATTEND CLASSES,

H. WHITE WAS DISCHARGED FROM THE US ARMY RESERVE ON 21 OCT 81, IN
ORDER TO ENTER ON ACTIVE DUTY ON 22 OCT 81. WHITE WAS ASSIGNED, FOR
BASIC TRAINING AT FORT JACKSON, SC.

2. ON 1 SEP 82, JOHN EDWARD PARKER, LTC, 466-62-1137, INFANTRY,
   PROFESSOR OF MILITARY SCIENCE (MPS), KEMPER MILITARY COLLEGE (KMC),
   BOONVILLE, MO 65233 WITH RESIDENCE AT RURAL ROUTE 3, BOONVILLE, MO
   65233, NAS INTERVIEWED IN HIS OFFICE AT KMC. PARKER ASSUMED THE
   DUTIES AS PMS IN AUG 81 AND HAD ONLY ONE CONTACT WITH SUBJECT, WHICH
   WAS ON 15 SEP. 82, WHEN WHITE WAS DISENROLLED FROM ROTC. PARKER
   STATED THERE WAS NO ONE AT KMC PRESENTLY, WHO WAS ASSIGNED THERE
   DURING WHITE'S ATTENDANCE, PARKER DID STATE THAT CPT CARL J. DAVID,
   SUBJECTIS FORMER INSTRUCTOR, WAS ATTENDING THE COMBINED ARMS AND
   SERVICES STAFF SCHOOL (CAS3), FT LEAVENWORTH, KS 66027 (NFI), AND
   THE PREVIOUS PMS, EUGENE C. MURKINSON, LTC (RETIRED), WAS RESIDING
   AT 619 KROHN, BOONVILLE, MO 65233,

3. ON 2 SEP 82, EUGENE C. MURKINSON, WAS CONTACTED TELEPHONICALLY
   REFERENCE SUBJECT, MURKINSON STATED HE WOULD BE WILLING TO BE
   INTERVIEWED BUT HE HAD HAD NO CONTACT WITH SUBJECT.

4. ON 3 SEP 82, AN ATTEMPT TO CONTACT BG (RETIRED) LOYD P. RHIDDLE-
   HOOVER MET WITH NEGATIVE RESULTS, RHIDDLEHOOVER IS PRESENTLY TOY AND
   WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE UNTIL 9 SEP 82.

5. ON 3 SEP 82, AN ATTEMPT TO CONTACT CPT, CARL J. DAVID AT CAS3, FT
   LEAVENWORTH, KS, MET WITH NEGATIVE RESULTS. CPT DAVID DEPARTED FT
   LEAVENWORTH, KS ON 3 SEP 82 ENROUTE, TO HOS, 3 BN, 61ST ADA, 3D
   ARMORED DIVISION, APO NY, NY 09076.

6. RECOMMEND THAT MURKINSON ANDRHIODLEHOOVER NOT BE CONTACTED AS
   THEY WOULD NOT HAVE HAD ANY CONTACT WITH WHITE. ANY INFO THEY MIGHT
   FURNISH WOULD BE HEARSAY.

7. ACTION OFFICER, S/A JOHN HARDY, AV 552-2490/5202.
   REVIEW: 7 SEP 92
   #9025

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 22 SEP 94
BY CDR USA-HSCCOM F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R

NW 88613 Docld:34531366 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)