Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10381
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 39-40

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO : [ RESTRICTED ]
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/19/68
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE (SUPERVISOR)

MUTUAL INSURANCE ADVISORY ASSOCIATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34529197 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   MARTI, Manuel NMN
   PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
   DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   19 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8240-6019
   093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(EMPLOYMENT SUPERVISOR) On 24 September 1968, George J.
Ferraro, Production Manager, Mutual Insurance Advisory Association (MIAA),
733 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10017, who resides at 47-19 216th
Street, Bayside, New York 11361, a former supervisor of Manuel MARTI,
was interviewed at his place of employment concerning SUBJECT. Ferraro
stated substantially as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT on 5 April 1965 when MARTI started to
work under Source's supervision at MIAA, and he had daily business contact
with SUBJECT until MARTI left MIAA to enter the United States Army on or
about 20 May 1968. Source had no social contact with SUBJECT during the
period of association. MARTI was originally employed as a Utility Clerk
in Source's department, and because of HIS keen intelligence and willing-
ness to resume responsibility the position of Utility Clerk Supervisor was
created for HIM. HE was subsequently trained within the section and
promoted to Tabulating Machine Operator, the position which HE held at the
time of HIS departure. SUBJECT was well liked and respected by HIS co-
workers, and Source considered HIM to be the best employee in his section.
Ferraro would be happy to have SUBJECT return to work under his supervision.

SUBJECT is of Puerto Rican decent, and was single and resided
with HIS parents in Bronx, New York, exact address unknown. SUBJECT'S
mother was ailing for some time after HIS employment at MIAA and she died
on or about 9 January 1967. SUBJECT has a younger sister, name unknown,.
and a brother, name unknown, who is also in the United States military
service. While at MIAA SUBJECT was given a deferment by HIS draft board because
HIS brother was in the military service and HE was the sole support of HIS
parents. SUBJECT is a high school graduate, and is believed to have attended
college at night, further details unknown. Source had no knowledge concerning
SUBJECT'S employment prior to MIAA.

39

MARTI is a dependable, industrious, cooperative, and aggressive
individual who exercises considerable initiative in HIS work. HIS moral
character and discretion are above reproach, and HE manifested no undesir-
able personal habits during the period of association. SUBJECT is honest,
trustworthy, mature and emotionally stable, and HE has had no known difficulty
with creditors or law enforcement agencies. Source had no knowledge concern-
ing the degree of influence exercised over SUBJECT by HIS father. MARTI
firmly believes in the principles of a free democratic society, and Source
considers HIM loyal to the United States. SUBJECT had no known organizational
affiliations, and Source had no knowledge concerning HIS foreign travels,
relatives residing abroad, or business interest in foreign countries. Source
suggested Lucien Todman, 1660 Andrews Avenue, Bronx, New York, as a close

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   PROTECTIVE MARKING IS EXCLUDED SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT TERMINATION Continued

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)
Alphonso E. Marshall

NW 88613 Docld:34529197 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

amr

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN
PVT E-1, US 737 780
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED

19 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019
093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

friend of SUBJECT.

Ferraro highly recommends that SUBJECT be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Group (I-SIB)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![Signature of Alphonso E. Marshall]

NW 88613 Docld:34529197 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)