Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10013-10152
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ZF000003W PAGES 1203-1204

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : SSO
TO : SSO DA
TITLE : MESSAGE
DATE : 09/08/82
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

WHITE, JOSEPH T.

VIDEO TAPE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

Date : 07/25/96
Page : 1

NW 88613 DocId:34531363 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

UNCLAS EFTO

ZCZCRP0324
DAN: 296-043001
INPUT CDSN = DKA925
PAGE 1
TOR: 081034Z SEP 82 TOT: 081034Z SEP 82

OTTMZYUW YAIHRA 8192 2510930-MNSH--YEKDOO,
ZNY MMNSH
ZKZK DO SOA DE
0-080900Z SEP 82
FM SSO KOREA//CS//
TO SSO DA
ZEM
UNCLAS EFTO
EYES ONLY//EYES ONLY//EYES ONLY//EYES ONLY//EYES ONLY//EYES ONLY//
SSO DA FOR MG E C. O'CONNOR, DAMO-ODD, SSO KOREA FROM MG HUOACHEK,
CS, USFK/EUSA
SUBJECT: VIDEO TAPE - PFC WHITE

1. ENROUTE TO YOUR LOCATION IS A VIDEO TAPE COPY OF THE TELEVISED
   NORTH KOREAN PRESS CONFERENCE PFC WHITE HELD IN PYONGYANG.
2. THE TAPE IS BEING HANDCARRIED BY LTC ROBERT TURPIN, 074-26-2297,
   USA, LTC TURPIN IS SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE WASHINGTON NATIONAL AIRPORT
   AT 2155 LOCAL, 8 SEPTEMBER, ON TWA FLIGHT 240.
3. REQUEST AN OFFICER FROM YOUR OFFICE MEET HIM UPON HIS ARRIVAL.
   HE IS DRESSED IN SHORT SLEEVE CLASS A UNIFORM..
4. LTC TURPIN HAS RESERVATIONS AT THE HOLIDAY INN, NEXT TO MILPER-
   CEN HQ IN ALEXANDRIA, SHOULD HE BE MISSED AT THE AIRPORT.
5. TAPE MUST BE CONSIDERED CLOSE HOLD NOW, BUT, DO NOT OBJECT TO
   PERMITTING PARENTS TO VIEW IT UNDER DA CONTROL WITHOUT PRESS INVOLVE-
   MENT. NEWS MEDIA MAY HAVE TAPED INTERVIEW AND SEEMS BEST TO GIVE
   PARENTS AN OPPORTUNITY TO VIEW FROM OUR SOURCE FIRST RATHER THAN THEM
   SEEING IT ON EVENINGS NEWS PARENTS SHOULD BE REQUESTED TO NOT DIS-
   CUSS THE TAPE OR ITS CONTENTS WITH NEWS MEDIA, AS SUCH ACTION MIGHT
   JEOPARDIZE OUR 13 SEPTEMBER EFFORTS TO TRY AND ARRANGE A FACE TO FACE
   INTERVIEW WITH WHITE.
6. USE OF THE TAPE IN CONNECTION WITH NEWS MEDIA MUST BE CAREFULLY
   CONSIDERED. WE BELIEVE THAT UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD DA ALLOW
   THE PRESS TO VIEW THE TAPE WITHOUT EXPRESS CONSENT OF THE PARENTS,
   TO DO OTHERWISE VIOLATES COMMON COURTESY. MOREOVER, THE TAPE WAS NOT
   PRODUCED BY DOD FOR RELEASE BUT HAS SIMPLY FALLEN INTO OUR POSSESION
   AND THUS PRESS HAS NO UP FRONT RIGHT TO IT. THE INTERVIEW WILL NOT

UNCLAS EFTO

1203

EYES ONLY

NW 88613 Docld:34531363 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

UNCLAS EFTO

PAGE 2
BE SHOWN ON SOUTH KOREAN TV AND IT IS IN THE BEST INTEREST OF THE US
NOT TO AID NORTH KOREA IN SPREADING THEIR COMMUNIST PROPAGANDA.
OFFERING TO PROVIDE A SCREENING OR COPIES OF THE TAPE WILL PROVIDE
THE NORTH KOREANS WITH A MUCH LARGER AUDIENCE THAN THEY MAY OTHER-
WISE ACHIEVE. COMMON SENSE DICTATES THAT WHATEVER WE CAN DO TO DOWN-
PLAY THE INCIDENT AND LIMIT THE PUBLICITY WILL FRUSTRATE COMMUNISTS
EFFORTS TO SPREAD THEIR MESSAGE, IF FEELING AT DA IS THAT TAPE
SHOULD BE TURNED OVER TO PRESS, URGE TJAG AND/OR GENERAL COUNCIL
BECOME INVOLVED TO RULE ON THE NECESSITY TO DO SO.
7. PLEASE RESPOND WHEN THE TAPE IS IN YOUR POSSESSION,
8. WARM REGARDS.
SSO NOTE: DELIVER IMMEDIATELY

#8192

NNNN

UNCLAS EFTO

1204

![EYES ONLY]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)