Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10406
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 74

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM :
TO : CG, FT JACKSON SC
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 06/05/68
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

RESIDENCES

EMPLOYMENT

CIVILIAN SCHOOL

FBI INVESTIGATIVE FILES CHECK

RELATIVES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : INCLOSURES NOT INCLUDED. PAGE 74 REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED INCLOSURES.

NW 88613 Docld:34529222 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

E 272 je
NACC Use Only

158-2528

5. MONTH, DAY, YEAR OF BIRTH

17May46

RETURN RESULTS TO:
(Include ZIP Code)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

ENTHAC NATIONAL AGENCY CHECK REQUEST 0-9-2

1. LAST NAME FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME
   MARTI, Manuel

3. ALIAS(ES) AND ALL FORMER NAME(S)

None

6. PLACE OF BIRTH

San Juan, P.R.

REQUEST DATE
5 JUN 1968
2/ SEX
Male

4. SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
   093-36-4601

7. SERVICE NUMBER
   US52773870

8. SECURITY PROGRAM

MILITARY
CIVILIAN
INDUSTRIAL

LOCAL FILES CHECKED WITH FAVORABLE RESULTS

9. RELATIVES

a. FATHER
MARTI, Manuel

b. MOTHER (Full Maiden Name)
BADILLO, REYES

c. SPOUSE (Full Maiden Name)
None

10. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
    10Aug10
    Utaado, P.R.
    6Jan15
    San Juan, P.R.

C. INITIATOR OF REQUEST
0310

11. PRESENT ADDRESS
    1201 University Ave.
    Bronx, NY

Deceased

12. CITIZENSHIP
    US
    US

13. RESIDENCES (List all from 18th birthday or during past 15 years, whichever is shorter. If under 18, list present and most recent addresses.)

a. FROM
b. TO
c. NUMBER AND STREET
d. CITY
e. STATE
May64
Sep66
905 E. 167 St.
Bronx
NY
Sep66
May68
1201 University Ave.
Bronx
NY
May68
Pres
On post residence

In response to request there are attached reports which appear to relate to the subject of your inquiry.

14. EMPLOYMENT (List all from 18th birthday or during past 15 years, whichever is shorter. If under 18, list present and most recent employment)

a. FROM
b. TO
c. EMPLOYER
d. PLACE
May64
Apr65
Polly Perry Inc.
Manhattan, NY
Apr65
May68
Mutual Ins. Advisery Assoc.
Manhattan, NY
May68
Pres
US ARMY

This reply is result of check of FBI investigative files. To check arrest records, request must be submitted to
FBI, Inntification Division. Fingerprints are necessary for positive check.

15. LAST CIVILIAN SCHOOL

a. FROM
b. TO
c. NAME
d. PLACE
Jul67
Sep67
Bronx Comm.Clg.

YES NO 16. ("Yes" answers must be explained in Item 18, below.)

X a. Is the subject an alien or naturalized citizen?

X b. Has the subject any foreign connections, employment or military service?

X c. Has the subject travelled or resided abroad other than for the U.S. Government?

X d. Has the subject had employment requiring a security clearance or investigation?

e. Is the subject now or has he ever been in the Federal Civil Service or Armed Forces?

X f. Has the subject qualified DD Form 398, 98, 48-1, or similar security form?

X g. Has the subject ever been addicted to drugs?

18. REMARKS (If additional space is needed, continue on plain paper.)

16e-1st term inductee

REQUESTER DESIGNATOR

ARMY
NAVY
AIR FORCE
OSD
JCS
NSA

REASON
BASIC TRAINEE
PRE-COMMISSION,
NUCLEAR
BL
SECRET CLEARANCE

To be regraded UNCLASSIFIED and annotated FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY when separated from classified inclosures.

FORM
DD 1584
1 DEC 66

REPLACES DA FORM 3027, 1 AUG 65, WHICH IS OBSOLETE.

NW 88613 Docld:34529222 Page 2
GPO: 1967 0-247-527
226


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)