Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10360
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGES 11-12

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : BURKE, J E
TO : ASST COF, G-2
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 08/21/68
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

SECURITY DETERMINATION

INVESTIGATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : DOCUMENT REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 20 JUL 94

NW 88613 Docld:34529176 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION
(AR 381-130)

TO: (Control Office, Address and ZIP Code)
DCS OPNS
USAINTC
PO BOX 398
Ft Holabird, Md., 21219

THRU: (Include ZIP Code)

(Enter name and address and ZIP Code of ACTION AGENCY to which results are to be sent.)
(Include Control Code Number.)

Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
United States Army, VIETNAM
APO San Francisco 96375

DATE
21 Aug 68 0300

FROM: (Include ZIP Code) (Include Control
Code Number - See AR 381-45.)
DCSI
Third US Army
Fort McPherson, Ga.

CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY

DATE OPENED REQUEST NO.

DATE CLOSED DOSSIER NO.

REMARKS

SECTION I - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first, middle) 2. ALIAS(ES), MAIDEN NAME
   MARTI, Manuel (NMN)
3. SERVICE/SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
   US 52773870
   093 36 4601

4. DATE OF BIRTH
   (Month, Day, Year)
   May 17, 1946
5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State and Country)
   San Juan, PR
6. GRADE AND POSITION
   PVT

CHECK APPROPRIATE BOX(ES) AND LINE OUT INAPPLICABLE WORDS IN PARENTHESES

7. INVESTIGATIVE ACTION REQUESTED AND REASONS THEREFOR

BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION REQUIRED FOR:

(Access) (Limited Access) TO
MATERIAL CLASSIFIED
(CONFIDENTIAL) (SECRET) (TOP SECRET).

ALIEN REQUIREMENT
CONTAINED IN AR 600-200.

(Limited) (Critical)
NUCLEAR WEAPON POSITION
PRESCRIBED IN AR 50-3.

OTHER (Specify).

(Special Background Investigation) (Reinvestigation) REQUIRED FOR (Ultra-Sensitive Position) (Special Category Position).

[X] LIMITED INVESTIGATION REQUIRED IN ACCORDANCE WITH PARAGRAPH 24 AR 381-130 TO RESOLVE ADVERSE
INFORMATION ENTERED IN ITEM 11 OR ATTACHED DOCUMENTS.

OTHER INVESTIGATIVE ACTION RE-
QUESTED AND REASONS THEREFOR:

8. AS REQUIRED BY AR 604-5, LOCAL FILES [ ] PERSONNEL, [XX] INTELLIGENCE, [XX] PROVOST MARSHAL, [XX] MEDICAL, WERE
   CHECKED ON (Date) 15 Aug 68 AND REVEALED: [ ] NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION

UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 11 BELOW WHICH IS NOT A BAR TO CLEARANCE OR ACTION CONTEMPLA-
TED.

9. LATEST INVESTIGATION AND/OR CLEARANCE (Indicate type, when made, by whom, and file or dossier 10. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL
   number.) SERVICE EXCEEDING SIX
   MONTHS SINCE:

11. REMARKS (Use continuation sheets as required.)
    Request Limited Investigation re SUBJECT to determine if action UP AR 604-10 is
    warranted - LI to include technical FP Check.
    SUBJECT currently assigned to USATC, Ft Jackson, S. C.
    Regraded Unclassified When Separated
    From Classified Inclosures
    and Marked
    "FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY - This Protective
    Marking is Excluded From Automatic
    'Doss 09336460LerTYPED NAME AND TITLE
    J. E. BURKE, LTC, GS
    Chief,! Scty Div

DA FORM 2784
1 DEC 66
REPLACES EDITION OF 1 APR 64 WHICH IS OBSOLETE EFFECT O U685239
OR WHEN STOCKS BECOME EXHAUSTED, WHICHEVER IS SOONER.

NW 88613 Docld:34529176 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CONFIDENTIAL!

CHECK APPROPRIATE BOX(ES) AND LINE OUT INAPPLICABLE WORDS IN PARENTHESES

SECTION II - CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER

NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED. ITEMS RED LINED ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.

DATE

REQUEST CLARIFICATION OF PARA ABOVE.

INCL

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

SIGNATURE

SECTION III - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

ACTION REQUIRED BY SECTION II HAS BEEN COMPLETED.

REQUEST INVESTIGATION BE CANCELED FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:

CLEARANCE REQUIREMENT IS TERMINATED.

SUBJECT HAS BEEN (Separated) (Discharged) AND ORDERS ARE ATTACHED.

OTHER (Explain).

SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED (Orders attached).

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

SIGNATURE

SECTION IV - CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY
SUBJECT ASGD TO: USARV TRANS
DATE 2 DEC 1968

RESULTS OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION: DET, APO S.F. 96375, EDCSA, 13 Dec 68; SO 283, Par

FAVORABLE.  ATTACHED DOCUMENTS FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETERMINATION. 210, Hq, USATC, I, Ft Jackson SC

TYPE OF INVESTIGATION COMPLETED:

BACKGROUND SPECIAL REINVESTIGATION LIMITED COMPLAINT

CONTROL OFFICE COMPLETING INVESTIGATION SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL CLOSING INVESTIGATION DATE COMPLETED

USAINTC

2 DEC 1968

INCL 1. nc

TYPED NAME AND POSITION

CHAD B. WHITE

LTC., MI, Deputy Chief, ICOP III

SECTION V - ACTION AGENCY TO GAINING COMMAND

GAINING COMMAND AND ADDRESS (Include ZIP Code)

DATE

SUBJECT TRANSFERRED TO YOUR COMMAND PER SPECIAL ORDER NO.

(Copy inclosed).

INCL (Include orders)

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

SIGNATURE

SECTION VI - RECORD OF FINAL ACTION (ACTION AGENCY TO USAIRR)

FAVORABLE DETERMINATION.

CLEARANCE GRANTED (TOP SECRET) (SECRET) (CONFIDENTIAL) (CRYPTO) (SPECIAL).

CLEARANCE DENIED AND ACTION TAKEN IN ACCORDANCE WITH PARA 24, AR 604-5.

REMARKS:

TYPED NAME, TITLE AND ORGANIZATION

SIGNATURE

NW 88613 Docld:34529176 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)