# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10357
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 7

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 03/27/69
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

SUBJECT INTERVIEW

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : EXHIBIT INDEXED SEPARATELY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

AGENT REPORT
(SR 380-320--10)

# 1. Name of Subject or Title of Incident
MARTI, Manuel (NMN)
PFC, US 52 773 870
DPOB: 17 May 1946; San Juan, Puerto Rico

# 2. Date Submitted
27 March 1969

# 3. Control Symbol or File Number
093-36-4601

# 4. Report of Findings

(SUBJECT INTERVIEW) On 25 March 1969, Manuel MARTI, PFC, US52773870,
Headquarters and Headquarters Battery, 4th Battalion, 60th Artillery, APO
96294, after being advised of HIS rights under Article 31, Uniform Code of
Military Justice, and HIS right to Legal Counsel, was interviewed under oath
in the Conference Room, Headquarters, 4th Battalion, 60th Artillery, An Khe,
Republic of Vietnam. MARTI executed a sworn statement, DA Form 2820
(EXHIBIT ) dated 26 March 1969, which states in substance as follows:

MARTI thought the communists were trying to take over the world and
HE didn't go for it. SUBJECT had not participated in any Communist Party
activities nor had no knowledge of ever associating with any members of the
Communist Party. HE belonged to a stamp collectors' organization.

SUBJECT's father or mother had not been an influence on HIS poli-
tical ideologies or activities. HE did not object to being in the military,
but if HE didn't have to serve, HE wouldn't. HE liked serving in Vietnam
better than in the United States. SUBJECT thought that the United States
should be in Vietnam to keep communism from spreading.

MARTI owed HIS allegiance to the United States and supported the
Constitution of the United States in its entirety.

MARTI was willing to submit to a polygraph examination on the
information HE provided.

# 5. Typed Name and Organization of Special Agent
DONALD M. MIYOSHI, 55th MI Detachment (Corps)

# 6. Signature of Special Agent
![Signature of Donald M. Miyosh]

DA FORM 341 Replaces WD AGO Form 341, 1 Jun 47, Which may be used.
1 APR 52

55-277

NW 88613 Docld:34529173 Page 2
PPC-Japan


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)