JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 08/24/98
Page : 1

AGENCY: CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10006-10197
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 755

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM: TADICH, DMITRI J
TO: CHIEF, OPO
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE: 07/28/67
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT

INDUCTION

SECURITY

COMMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED
CORRESPONDENCE OR MATERIAL. INCLOSURE NO INCLUDED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

USAPSG (23 May 67)
SUBJECT: SCHEER, Robert, SSN: 112-28-1134
DPOB: 4 April 1936, Bronx, New York

TO: Chief, OPO
ATTN: EPD-EPPA
FROM: ACSI
DATE: 28 JUL 1967 CMT 3
M. C. Sneeringer/jmm/6139

1. Case concerning SUBJECT is forwarded for appropriate action.

2. The Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence adheres to his determination, as stated in Comment Number 1, that induction of SUBJECT into military service is inconsistent with the interests of national security. However, the determination of The Judge Advocate General that the proposed allegations should not be drawn for the reason stated in Comment Number 2, precludes rejection of SUBJECT for security reasons under present policy.

3. In the event it is determined that SUBJECT is declared acceptable for induction, recommend that appropriate personnel records be annotated to preclude HIS receiving access to classified information.

4. Request that the file be returned through the Director of Security, Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, to the Chief, United States Army Personnel Security Group, Fort Holabird, Maryland 21219, upon completion of your action.

FOR THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF FOR INTELLIGENCE

![signature]

DMITRI J. TADICH
Colonel, GS
Chief, Personnel Security
Division

1 Incl
Dossier 112 28 11 34 (S)
re SUBJECT (4 volumes)

755

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

TO BE REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM CLASSIFIED CORRESPONDENCE OR MATERIAL.
This document will then be marked:
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SECRET

USA PSG S 151-7

NW 88613 DocId:34530144 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)