Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
# IDENTIFICATION FORM

# AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10386
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 46-47

# DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/19/68
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE (FRIEND)

COL.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34529202 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

## 1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 789

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

## 2. DATE SUBMITTED

19 November 1968

## 3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

093 36 4601

## 4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(LISTED CHARACTER REFERENCE) On 14 November 1968, Hugo Rivera, Assistant Manager, American Finance Corporation, 556 7th Avenue, New York, New York, who resides at 2020 Walton Avenue, Bronx, New York 10453, was interviewed at his place of employment concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has been a close friend of SUBJECT for approximately 12 years stated substantially as follows:

Source and SUBJECT first met approximately 12 years ago when they were both attending elementary school at PS 20, Simpson and 167th Street, New Yori. They were classmates from elementary school through Junior High School number 40, Prospect Avenue, Bronx, New York, and through their sophomore year at Evander Childss High School, 800 East Gunhill Road, Bronx, New York, in 1962, when Source dropped out of school and went into the United States Army. Source and SUBJECT visited each other regularly while they were in school together, and because of their mutual interest in coin and stamp collecting. After Source went into the Army he did not see SUBJECT again until his discharge in 1964; however, they corresponded with each other regularly. Since 1964 they have had frequent social contact, and Rivera last saw MARTI on 12 November 1968 when HE was home on leave to attend the funeral of HIS uncle who Source knew only as Polo.

Source believed that SUBJECT and HIS brother, Ivan, were born in Puerto Rico but came to New York City when they were very young. When they first met SUBJECT resided at 905 East 167th Street, Bronx, New York, with HIS parents, Reyes and Manuel Marti; HIS brother, Ivan, and their younger sister, Blanca, who is now approximately 14 years of age. Prior to HIS induction SUBJECT resided with HIS family at 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, New York. HIS mother died in early 1967 from lung cancer. HIS only known employment was with an insurance firm on Third Avenue, New York, New York, where MARTI worked as an IBM operator, further details unknown. SUBJECT'S father was formerly employed with an unknown shipping company, but Source had no knowledge of HIS present employment. HIS uncle, Polo, who died recently, used to operate a small grocery store on 163rd Street, Bronx, New York, exact location not recalled.

SUBJECT and HIS brother were brought up in a very respectable home, and their mother exercised rigid control over their activities even after they were fully grown. They were not allowed to participate in any of the games and other activities in which boys usually participate with the other children in the neighborhood, and as a result SUBJECT had had very few close friends. Most of SUBJECT'S spare time was always devoted to reading or to HIS hobby of coin and stamp collection. Although SUBJECT is a perfectly normal male, Source did not recall HIM ever having a

Continued

## 5. TYPED NAME AND

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED

19 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

girlfriend. HE is completely honest, trustworthy, and dependable, and HE has never had a moment of difficulty with law enforcement agencies. When SUBJECT'S brother was drafted into the military service SUBJECT was granted a deferment in order that HE could assist in supporting the family since HIS mother was ill. When HIS turn came to be drafted HE did not utter a single complaint about going into the Army because HE felt that HE had an obligation to go. Source stated that HE would stake his life on SUBJECT'S loyalty to the United States. Although he had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S father's political or organizational affiliations, Source recalled that he occasionally brought home the socialist newspaper, name not recalled, and would side with the comments made in the paper that were critical of the United States and its policies. On these occasions SUBJECT and HIS brother would always argue in defense of the United States, and SUBJECT'S father has never been able to influence HIS political thoughts and belief in any way. SUBJECT never travelled abroad, and is not known to have any relatives residing abroad. HE uses alcoholic beverages moderately, and does not gamble or use habit forming drugs. Source knew of nothing that would reflect adversely on MARTI'S character, discretion, maturity, or emotional stability, and HE has no organizational affiliations, except perhaps some club connected with stamp and coin collection. Source was unable to furnish any information concerning SUBJECT's listed character references Juanita Reyes and Aleanso Ortiz. Carlos Delgado, SW 33rd Street between First and Second Streets, Miami, Florida, is a friend of SUBJECT.

Rivera highly recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

47

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

Alphonso E. Marshall

FORM
DA 341
REPLACES WD AGO
1 APR 52

NW 88613 Docld:34529202 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)