Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 01/20/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10150
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 394

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 12/09/66
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : FROMER, DAVID REED

LOCAL AGENCY CHECK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 DocId:34528593 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

FROMER, David Reed
SSvc Registrant, SSN: 564 58 8137
DOB: 21 July 1942
POB: Chicago, Illinois

2. DATE SUBMITTED

9 December 1966

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(LOCAL AGENCY-SUBJECT) On 8 December 1966, files of Casual Source I-U-10 were examined regarding SUBJECT and revealed the following:

On 28 December 1959, it was reported that SUBJECT who was residing at 1932 Cabrillo, San Francisco, California, was the SON of Irving Rhodes and Katherine Fromer. It was subsequently reported that SUBJECT was residing at 2452 Bancroft, Berkeley, California.

On 12 April 1961, it was reported that SUBJECT was on the mailing list of SLATE, a student rights organization at the University of California, Berkeley (UCB).

In 1960 and 1962, SUBJECT was a freshman at UCB and resided at 2462 Bancroft, Berkeley.

On 18 June 1963, it was reported that HE attended the Arnautoff Bon Voyage Party which was under the auspicious of the American Russian Institute, San Francisco, on 26 May 1963.

On 26 June 1963, it was reported that SUBJECT attended a meeting under the auspicious of the Continuations Committee of World Congress and General Disarmament & Peace, San Francisco, on 7 May 1963.

In an article in the San Francisco Chronicle, a local newspaper, on 22 September 1966, it was reported that SUBJECT residing at 13 Rhonda Way, Mill Valley, California, had won a federal court stay in HIS battle against the draft board. HE was attending the University of Wisconsin and is a conscientious objector.

(LOCAL AGENCY-SUBJECT) On 8 December 1966, files of Casual Source San Francisco A-14 were examined regarding SUBJECT and revealed no record.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

EUGENE J. POWER, 115th MI Group (I)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

DA FORM 341
1 APR 52

REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88613 Docld:34528593 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)