2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 09/02/98
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10014-10116
RECORDS SERIES : DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: AA851401WJ - PAGES 20-21

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : INFORMATION REPORT
DATE: 00/00/00
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: CHARLES, CLEMARD J

UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED
CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/15/98
OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY CIA FOR RELEASABILITY
COMMENTS: DOCUMENTS DECLARED "NOT BELIEVED RELEVANT" BY THE CIA AND AGREED TO BY THE ARRB, PER MEMO DTD 14 AUG 98.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

CONTROLLED DISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAD

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

COUNTRY Eaiti REPORT NO. OO-14068-68

SUBJECT Clemard Joseph-Charles Mast Raice US $505
Thousand Ecforo De Can Roguma Nis Danking And Other DATE DISTR.
Letiviticoline of Charles's Plans/President NO. PAGES 2
Duvalier Repartedly Copes To Improve His Image And
To Attract Foreign Capital And Dusiness Activity/ REFERENCES DCS Cascad 47,540
Rumors Continue Concerning Possible Recrganization Supplement to: 00-B-321/12106-68
Of Haition Government

DATE OF INFO.Hay 68

PLACE & DATE ACQPort-au-Prince, Haiti, May 68

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE Naturalized US citizen of Haition birth. Source maintains close contacts with Haitions in the US and with prominent business and political figures in Haiti and travels at irregular intervals to the Caribbean countries.

1. Clemard Joseph-Charles was released from pricon during the evening of 25 Apr 68 in return for a "ranson" of US $605 thousand.

2. Charlcs has been given until 24 May 60 to produce the US $505 thousand. This sun kaust be in on irrovocable letter of credit on an American bank in favor of the National Eank of the Eepublic of Haiti. It has been intimated that the 24 May 60 deadline can be extended, chould Charice to expariencing any really unusual difficulties in producing the required monay.

3. In order to obtain his release from prison, Charles had to sign a memorandum of understanding that he would produce the US $605 thousand plus some unidentifica real property. These terms were agreed to by both Charles and his wife prior to the release. At the same time, Charles wrote a personal lottor to President Duvelier coking for rolease and promising to hand over the moncy and property in question.

4. Charles is now under house arrest in Port-au-Prince, Haiti.

5. Charles's immediate resources consist of about US $100 thousand in cash in two U3 banks (no additional data available), various homes, businesses (essential oils, an automobile dealership and others (no additional data available)), buildings, land and about US $400 thousand worth of Haition Covernment bonda. He did have another US $300 thousand in personal funds in Haiti. He can no longer count on this money to help raise the US $505 thousand, however, because prior to his release from prison the Haitian authorities (no addi- tional data available) confiscated it.

6. Charles has agreed to raise the US $605 thousand on condition that it be used to pay cîf legitimate claims of depositors in his Banque Commerciale d'Haiti. Es has stated that he will permit the money to be paid out only to those depositors who are able to produce documentary proof that they had deposited funds in his bank.

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CONFIDENTIAL/CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

GROUP 1

Excluded from aulemark
downgrading und
derlustification

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employoos and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agoncies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly Participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organiza tws or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originator.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CONTROLLED DISSEM CONFIDENTIAL/CIA INTERNAL USE ONLYNO DISSEM ABROAD

-2-

00-2-321/14060-68

7. Charles and several associates now propose to reorganize the Banque Commerciale d'Haiti, formerly his private preserve, into a corporate entity and to incorporate it in the US. The associates plan to raise US $500 thousand for this new corporation. This sum will to separate from the US $505 thousand and will serve to put the new banking corporation into business. Secretarial help and at least some of the six directors of the corporation will be US citizens. Two of the directors will be Charles himself and Louis Louvre.

8. President Duvalier is reportedly most interested in the new venture and is anxious to see it succeed. He has finally realized that the economic situation in Haiti has deteriorated so badly during the past 18 months that he must do something before total bankruptcy occurs. Accordingly, President Duvalier wants to improve his "image" in the eyes of the outside world, particularly in the US, and by doing so hopes to attract investments and business activities from outside Haiti. He apparently hopes that the new, incorporated, Banque Commerciale d'Haiti, will help attract such activity to Haiti and is therefore permitting Charles to proceed.

9. [Collector's Note: 00-B-321/12106-68 described a possible reorganization in the Haitian Government. This reorganisation, sponsored by Duvalier, would place Duvalier on the elevated plane of spiritual advisor and father of the people and would, on the surface, at least, turn over to a president the day-to-day management of Haitian government affairs. Various names have been mentioned for the position of president under the possible new system. 7 The name of Luc-Albert Foucard has recently been mentioned frequently in Haiti as the possible new president under the rumored reorganization of the government. Foucard is a son-in-law of Duvalier and lives in Haiti. He is in charge of tourism. Some say that Duvalier listens to Foucard and is, to a degree, influenced by him. I doubt this very strongly.

- end -

EXCLUDED FROM GENERAL
DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE

CONFIDENTIAL/CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)