Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 08/24/98
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10006-10178
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 635-636

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : DIETRICH, DAN H JR
TO : CG, USA INTEL CMD
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 10/05/66
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : SCHEER, ROBERT

REQUESTED ACTION

CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS

LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE

TYPE OF INVESTIGATION

RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

REQUEST FOR AND RESULT OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS:

NW-88613 DocId:34530123 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

REQUEST FOR AND RESULT OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

TO: (Control Office)

CG, USA Intelligence Cmd
ATTN: ACofS, CONOPS
PO Box 398
Fort Holabird, Md 21219

CG, USAREC
ATTN: Security Officer
Fort Monroe, Va 23351

FROM: (Requesting Agency)

CO, AFEES
1515 Clay Street
Oakland, California

(Enter name and address of the ACTION AGENCY to which results are to be sent, if known by requester)

CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY

CHIEF, USAPSG
ATTN: Adjudication Branch
Fort Holabird, Md 21219

REQUIREMENT REQUEST NO.

DOSSIER NO. OPENING DATE

REMARKS

SECTION I - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and middle names)

SCHEER, Robert (NMN)

2. ALIAS(ES), None

3. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

112-28-1134

4. DATE OF BIRTH
   (Day, Month, Year)

4 April 1936

5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State and country)

Bronx, New York, New York, USA

6. GRADE AND POSITION

N/A

7. REQUESTED ACTION

INVESTIGATION VALIDATION RECORDS CHECK

8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION:

NAC NACI BI OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

9. a. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:

TOP SECRET SECRET CONFIDENTIAL

10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR:

Induction

b. FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION

c. INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED

11. JUSTIFICATION

PAR 18, AR 604-10

d. OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON

NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION REVEALED:

UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION CONTEMPLATED

INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15

13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom)

N/A

14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE

N/A

15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels.).

Request investigation of registrant in view of remarks made by registrant in remarks section of DD Form 98 and DD Form 398.

Headquarters
US Army Recruiting Command
Hampton, Virginia 23369

INCLS

2

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

MYRON K. HAYASHIDA
1/LT, AGC

SIGNATURE

SECTION II CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER

16. 
NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED

DATE

ITEMS ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.

INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.

INCLS

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

DA FORM 2784

SIGNATURE

For Official Use Only


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SECTION III – REQUE....R TO CONTROL OFFICE

17. REPORT OF ACTION

[ ] INFORMATION NOTED

[ ] SUBJECT REASSIGNED TO NON- SENSITIVE DUTIES, INVESTIGATION MAY BE CANCELED.

[ ] INFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR TO CLEARANCE. REQUEST COMPLETION OF INVESTIGATION.

18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED

TO

HEADQUARTERS

PER

DATED

19. REMARKS (If returning corrected forms, state here)

INCLS

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

SIGNATURE

DATE 29 FEB 1967

SECTION IV - CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY

20. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

[ ] NO RECORD

[ ] FAVORABLE

[ ] MINOR UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21

[ ] PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED

[X] FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETER- MINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY

IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION.

TYPE OF INVESTIGATION

[ ] NAC

[ ] NACI

[ ] BI

[X] OTHER

COMPLETED BY

USAINTC

DATE

16 Feb 67

DOSSIER NUMBER

HI 01 69 40

21. REMARKS

a. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873 (if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN
DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.

b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.

c. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH
AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH AR 381-130, AS ARPLICABLE.

INCLS

DOSSIER HI 01 69 40

NAME AND TITLE

DAN H. DIETRICH, Jr

Col, AIS, Chief, Ops III

SIGNATURE

DATE

SECTION V - ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE

22. REPORT OF ACTION

[ ] FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED

[ ] UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION, RECOMMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24

[ ] REQUEST ADDITIONAL INVESTI- GATION AS INDICATED IN ITEM 24

23. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED

TO

HEADQUARTERS

PER

DATED

24. REMARKS

INCLS

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

SIGNATURE

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

NW 88613 DocId:34530123 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)