Date : 01/13/98
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10138
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 27-27A

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : DIETRICH, DAN H. JR
TO : USA PERSONNEL SECURITY GROUP
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 06/13/67
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : FROMER, DAVID REED

LOCAL FBI (S) FILE CHECK

REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : INCLOSURES NOT INCLUDED. RECORD REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 [44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#: NW 88613
Date: 03-18-2025

NW 88613 Docld:34528551 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECTION III - REQUE. 'R TO CONTROL OFFICE

17. REPORT OF ASTION

☐ INFORMATION NOTER

☐ SUBJECT REASSIGNED TO NON-
SENSITIVE DUTIES, INVESTIGATION
MAY DE GANGELED.

☐ INFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR FO
CLEARANCE. REQUEST COMPLETION
OF INVESTIGATION.

18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED

TO HEADQUARTERS PER DATED

19. REMARKS (Il returning corrected forms, state here)

INCLS.

TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE


# SECTION IV - CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY

20. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

☐ NO RECORD ☐ FAVORABLE ☐ MINOR UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21

☐ PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED ☑X FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETER-
IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION. MINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY

| TYPE OF INVESTIGATION     | COMPLETED BY | DATE     | DOSSIER NUMBER |
| ------------------------- | ------------ | -------- | -------------- |
| ☐ NAC ☐ NACI ☐ BI XXOTHER | USAINTC      | 13 Jn 67 | 5 64 58 81 37  |

21. REMARKS

a. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRE COPY OF DA FORM 873
(if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN __________ DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.

b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE
RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.

c. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS __________ AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH_ AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH__________
AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH __________ AR 381-130, AS APPLICABLE.

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE
n/c DAN H. DIETRICH, JR. S. B. But
LTC, AIS, CHIEF, JCOP-III

# SECTION V - ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE

22. REPORT OF ACTION DATE

☐ FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF. ☐ UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION, RESCINDED PER D/A MESSAGE
COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED RECOMMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24 DA 769975, DATED 10 MAY 66

23. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED

TO HEADQUARTERS PER DATED

24. REMARKS

Regraded Unclassified When Separated REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
From Classified Inclosures ON 2 Sepqy
and Marked BY CDR, PER F01/PO

"FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY - This Protective AUTH Para 1-600 DOD 5200.1R
Marking is Excluded From Automatic

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE "Termination" SIGNATURE
27

NW 88613 DocId:34528551 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

TO! (Control Office)
DCS-OPS
USAINTC
ATTN: OPS III (Mr. Burwasser)
Fort Holabird, Md.

THRU:

DATE

5 May 1967

FROM: (Requesting Agency)

USAPSG

CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY
REQUIREMENT
REQUEST NO.

U.S. Army Personnel Security Group
DOSSIER.NO.
OPENING DATE

Fort Holabird, Maryland 21219
ATTN: Adjudications Division

REMARKS

REC'D 7 129 ICOP III

SECTION I - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and middle names)

FROMER, David Reed

2. ALIAS(ES), MAIDEN NAME

None

3. SERVICE/SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

564-58-8137

4. DATE OF BIRTH
   (Day, Month, Year)

5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State and country)

Chicago, Illinois

6. GRADE AND POSITION

21 July 1942

Registrant

7. REQUESTED ACTION

☑ INVESTIGATION

VALIDATION

RECORDS CHECK

8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION:

9. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:

NAC

NACI

BI

☑ OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR:

b.
FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION

11. JUSTIFICATION

c.
INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED

d. X OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH
    AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON
    REVEALED:

NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION

UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION CONTEMPLATED

INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15

13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom)

14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE

15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels.)

Request that Headquarters and Local FBI (S) file checks be conducted on SUBJECT'S parents.

"Request this investigation be expedited as determination under AR 604-10 is being delayed at Department of the Army pending results".

REGRAT
ON 2 Sepqy
BY CUR ΓΟΙ/ΡΟ
AUTH Pa: 3 1-000 OD 5200.1R

INCLS
Dossier 564588137
re SUBJECT
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
JB FINNEGAN
COL AIS
SIGNATURE

SECTION II CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER
DATE
16: NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED

ITEMS ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.

INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.
INCLS
TYPED NAME AND TITLE
SIGNATURE

DA FORM 2784
APR 64

NW 88613 Docld:34528551 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)