Date : 11/04/98
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
# IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10001-10169
RECORDS SERIES : DOD AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC678001R PAGES 1456-1490

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USAF OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS
FROM : ROBERT H. WAYLAND, JR. COL
TO :
TITLE : PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
DATE : 07/29/69
PAGES : 36
SUBJECTS : REPORT OF INVESTIGATION - CUSTOMS VIOLATION - INITIAL
REPORT

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/08/95
OPENING CRITERIA : COMPLETION OF REVIEW BY USAF
COMMENTS : COORDINATION WITH USAF HAS BEEN COMPLETED AND
DETERMINED TO BE RELEASABLE PER MEMO DTD 22 AUG 95.
OSI FORM 6, FOR PERIOD 7-21 JUL 69. ATTACHED: PAPER
CYS OF WEAPON AND MUNITIONS, 2 LTRS, SHIPMENT FORMS
AND WITNESS

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 1

> Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW 88613
> Date: 03-18-2025


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# REPORT OF INVESTIGATION

TITLE

PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT
Male Born: 5 Jun 15, OK
Lt Col, 513-10-4236FR
Eglin AFB, FL

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OFFICE OF SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS

REPORT MADE BY
GROVER C. AYERS, JR., SA
emp

STATUS
OFFICE OF ORIGIN
PERIOD
7 - 21 Jul 69

PENDING
DO 7
REPORT MADE AT
DO 7
FILE NR.
07D 18-1

CHARACTER
DATE
29 JUL 1969

CUSTOMS VIOLATIONS
REFERENCE

INITIAL REPORT
SYNOPSIS
Investigation requested by Comdr, Eglin AFB, FL on 7 Jul 69, to determine circumstances surrounding importation of 3 boxes of captured enemy weapons by SUBJECT. Two boxes containing a total of 21 weapons, 5 noise suppressors, and related equipment seized. Both boxes marked for SUBJECT. Munitions officials advised boxes were stored at request of SUBJECT. Deputy Comdr, AFATL, advised his agency was queried by ARPA, a DOD agency, about a box of weapons being sent through ARPA channels. Investigation disclosed SUBJECT sent 12 weapons to Eglin AFB from SEA while TDY in RVN in Nov 68. Eleven of these weapons were subsequently shipped from Eglin AFB to Sionics, Atlanta, at SUBJECT's request and at government expense. The twelfth weapon recovered at Eglin AFB. Deputy Comdr, AFATL, advised SUBJECT had no known authority to send weapons from SEA nor to ship weapons to Sionics; Sionics does not have AF contract. Records reflect SUBJECT, since Nov 68, has placed 7 long distance telephone calls to Sionics, at government expense. In verbal statement, SUBJECT advised he shipped one box containing 12 captured enemy weapons from SEA in approximately Nov 68 as part of his assigned duties to assist Vice-President of Sionics; that 11 of the weapons were subsequently forwarded to Sionics in Mar 69, because he considered Sionics an AF contractor. He advised that official telephone calls were placed for same reason. SUBJECT stated he acted as an agent for the USAF in all instances. He declined to execute a written statement at this time. SUBJECT's former supervisor in SEA advised that he did not authorize or direct the shipment of any captured enemy weapons to Sionics. Matter coordinated with U. S. Treasury agents who opined that SUBJECT was in violation of Public Law 90-618.

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED (AFR 124-4)

DISTRIBUTION

Comdr, Eglin AFB
(action) (w/atchs)

Dir OSI (w/atchs)

DO 51 (w/atchs)

File (w/atchs)

WITHIN USAF
This is a privileged document under military law. This report may not be reproduced or given additional dissemination except as authorized by AFR 124-4. If this report is classified see also AFR 205-1.

![signature]

ROBERT H. WAYLAND JR, Col, USAF
Commander

FILE STAMP

![file stamp]

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# 07D 18-1

DETAILS

1. This investigation was requested by the Commander, Eglin AFB, Florida on 7 July 1969, based on a request from the Commander, Air Force Armament Laboratory (AFATL), Eglin AFB, to determine the circumstances surrounding the importation of three boxes of captured enemy weapons by PAUL ARNOLD MARRIOTT (SUBJECT), Lt Col, 513-10-4236FR, AFATL, during the approximate period of November 1968 - July 1969.

2. On 7 July 1969, at Eglin AFB, Florida, a letter dated 3 July 1969, from the Commander, AFATL, was reviewed and the body of the letter is set forth as follows:

"1. It is requested that an investigation be conducted to determine if the laws/regulations regarding the importation of firearms have been complied with in the following instance.

"a. Approximately the first week in June Mr Beard of ARPA called Colonel Berkow of ADTC and inquired about a box of enemy weapons that had been shipped through the transportation capabilities of ARPA to Eglin AFB, Attention of Lt Colonel P. A. Marriott. Colonel Berkow called the Armament Laboratory (AFATL) since Lt Colonel Marriott is assigned to AFATL.

"b. A search was made to locate the shipment. Two boxes were found each containing North Vietnamese weapons. Both boxes were addressed as follows: FB2823 USAF (DOL-AFSC) Attn L/C P. A. Marriott.

"c. Subsequently, it was discovered that a shipment of North Vietnamese weapons and ammunition had been received at Eglin in early March and had been reshipped to Sionics Corporation, 1655 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia. The attached documents pertain to this shipment.

"2. Colonel J. H. Hobaugh, telephone 882-2763, will be available to discuss in more detail the above information."

The above letter is being retained in the files of OSI District 7 and will be available to proper authority upon request.

3. On 9 July 1969, J. T. KING, Lt Col, 472-12-2614FR, Staff Judge Advocate, 3201st Air Base Group, Eglin AFB, Florida, was apprised of the information contained in the above letter, by SA WILLIAM D. DIXON. KING advised that in his opinion, there existed probable cause to warrant the issuance by the Base Commander of an authorization for search and seizure of any captured enemy weapons contained in the storage facilities of the 3207th Armament and Munitions Test Support Squadron (AMTS), Eglin AFB.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

07D 18-1

KING also opined that there was probably a violation of Public Law 90-618 (Gun Control Act of 1968), possibly a violation of customs regulations, and possibly a fraud in that government transportation facilities had been misused.

4. On 9 July 1969, DONALD V. THOMPSON, Colonel, 472-12-2614FR, Deputy Commander, 3201st Air Base Group, Eglin AFB, Florida, was briefed concerning this matter, by SA DIXON. Colonel THOMPSON subsequently executed an Authority to Search and Seize, thereby authorizing the seizure of any captured enemy weapons contained in the storage facilities of the 3207th AMTS.

5. On 9 July 1969, a search of the storage facilities of the 3207th AMTS, Building 1270, Eglin AFB, Florida, was conducted by SA DIXON, in presence of JOSIAH C. MUSICK, CMSgt, FR361-07-1904, and CLARENCE M. GREEN, SMSgt, FR250-44-2188, NCOIC and Assistant NCOIC, respectively. The search revealed the presence of two packing crates marked for SUBJECT containing a total of 21 various automatic weapons, five noise suppressors, two range finders, 32 ammunition magazines and a brass plaque mounted on a piece of wood. The crates and contents were seized and taken as evidence against proper receipt and are being held by the evidence custodian of OSI Detachment 710, Eglin AFB, Florida, and are available to proper authority upon request.

6. On 11 July 1969, this investigation was coordinated with WILLIAM C. GOODMAN, SSAN: 579-20-9774, and ROBERT E. SANDERS, SSAN: 150-26-6417, Special Investigators, Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Control Division, Internal Revenue Service (Treasury Department), Pensacola, Florida, at Eglin AFB, Florida. GOODMAN advised that based on the available information, it appears that SUBJECT is in violation of Public Law 90-618; however, he would query his headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia and Washington, D. C. in an attempt to ascertain if SUBJECT had applied for permission to import the weapons or had submitted application to register the weapons. GOODMAN added that his inquiry would be accomplished by the most expeditious means available. GOODMAN and SANDERS requested that they be present during the photographing and identification of the weapons and during all interviews of witnesses and SUBJECT during this investigation.

7. On 11 July 1969, at Eglin AFB, Florida, the weapons were photographed in the presence of the writer, SA DIXON, GOODMAN and SANDERS, by CARL (NMI) CASSULO, SSgt, FR122-14-3910, Photographic Laboratory, Eglin AFB. The weapons are further identified as follows:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# 07D 18-1

## PACKING CRATE NR 1:

1 each Light Machine Gun (ChiCom), S/N 930228

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47)(ChiCom), S/N KZ 10682

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47)(ChiCom), S/N 11062936

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47)(ChiCom), S/N 12057463

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47)(ChiCom), S/N 9004420

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47) (Folding Stock)(ChiCom), S/N 610138

1 each Burp Gun (ChiCom), S/N 368603

1 each Machine Gun (K) (Swedish), S/N 502166

1 each Rocket Launcher (B-40) (Russian), S/N AF 305

1 each Rocket Launcher (B-40) (Russian), S/N 902098

1 each Rifle (M-14) (USA), S/N 4800

1 each Rifle, Caliber .22 (Winchester M-52), S/N 69494B, (w/Scope S/N 31411)

1 each Noise Suppressor Nr HELE 4A

1 each Noise Suppressor Nr 6A

1 each Noise Suppressor Nr 605

1 each Noise Suppressor Nr 19

1 each Noise Suppressor (no number)

## PACKING CRATE NR 2:

1 each Rocket Launcher (B-40) (Russian), S/N 424 (w/Scope S/N DB264)

1 each Rocket Launcher (B-40) (Russian), S/N 510 (w/Scope S/N 7078)

1 each Assault Rifle (Swedish), S/N 14449

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47) (ChiCom), S/N 12091918


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

07D 18-1

1 each Assault Rifle (AK-47) (ChiCom), S/N 12045

1 each Burp Gun (ChiCom), S/N 334002

1 each Machine Gun (M3A1) (US), S/N 607613

1 each Thompson Submachine Gun (US), S/N 255947

1 each Light Machine Gun (w/drum) (ChiCom), S/N 212160

It is noted that one of the above noise suppressors is marked "Sionics."

The above mentioned inventory also revealed the presence of a total of 32 ammunition magazines of various types.

Photographs of the above mentioned weapons are appended to this report as attachments.

8. On 14 July 1969, JOHN H. HOBAUGH, Colonel, 165-05-2634FR, Deputy Commander, AFATL, Eglin AFB, Florida, was interviewed at his duty station by GOODMAN and the writer. Colonel HOBAUGH advised substantially as follows: The first part of June 1969, he received a telephone call from Colonel BERKOW of the Armament Development and Test Center (ADTC), Eglin AFB. Colonel BERKOW stated that he had received a call from a Mr. BEARD (NFI) of the Advance Research Project Agency (ARPA), a DOD agency, who inquired about a box of enemy weapons that had been shipped through the transportation capabilities of ARPA to Eglin AFB, to the attention of Lt Col P. A. MARRIOTT. At this time Colonel HOBAUGH attempted to contact SUBJECT, but was unable to do so as SUBJECT was on leave; however, he left a message for SUBJECT to call him the next day. The next day SUBJECT called Colonel HOBAUGH and was instructed to telephonically contact Mr. BEARD and explain to BEARD the circumstances surrounding the shipping of the enemy weapons. At this time Colonel HOBAUGH went on leave, returning about 1 July 1969. Upon his return to duty, Colonel HOBAUGH was asked by Colonel MARTIN, Commander, AFATL, to look into the circumstances surrounding the shipment of enemy weapons and ammunition to Sionics from Eglin AFB, Florida and at the same time showing Colonel HOBAUGH a shipping document, dated 13 March 1969, requesting the shipment of two boxes of miscellaneous equipment to Sionics, 1655 Peachtree Street, NE, Atlanta, Georgia 30309, Attn: Mr. FRED BROWN, signed by SUBJECT. Colonel HOBAUGH fürther stated that the boxes of so called miscellaneous equipment were found to contain weapons and ammunition and were therefore repacked and shipped by the organizational logistics personnel according to their instructions from SUBJECT.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

07D 18-1

Colonel HOBAUGH advised that SUBJECT made several conflicting statements concerning his knowledge of how the enemy weapons got into the U.S. from the Republic of Vietnam (RVN). SUBJECT stated that he thought the weapons were registered by Sionics; SUBJECT stated that he thought the weapons were for the museum at Eglin AFB; and SUBJECT denied any knowledge of how any of the boxes of enemy weapons were sent to Eglin AFB. SUBJECT stated to Colonel HOBAUGH that while assigned to 7th Air Force in RVN, he acted as escort officer for MITCHELL WER BELL III, Vice-President of Sionics, and during such duties introduced WER BELL to several agencies. Colonel HOBAUGH also recalled that SUBJECT had stated that WER BELL was in RVN under Air Force sponsorship and was a close friend of the Thai Chief of Staff. Colonel HOBAUGH recalled that Colonel BILL FAGAN was SUBJECT's supervisor in RVN. Colonel HOBAUGH stated that to the best of his knowledge the Air Force museum at Eglin AFB has only a few old Viet Cong weapons as the museum was appointed to display weapons of U.S. origin and the Air Force Laboratory has no test program for enemy weapons. Furthermore, no need exists for enemy weapons at Eglin AFB. Colonel HOBAUGH stated that it is not likely that SUBJECT had any authority to ship any enemy weapons from RVN, and SUBJECT unequivocally had no authority to ship any weapons to Sionics as the Air Force Laboratory at Eglin AFB presently has no contract with Sionics, nor has it ever had a contract with Sionics for any purpose.

9. On 14 July 1969, the following information was disclosed from a review of SUBJECT's administrative records on file at the CBPO, Eglin AFB, Florida:

NAME: PAUL ARNOLD MARIOTT
GRADE/AFSN: Lt Col/FR35859
D&POB: 5 Jun 15/Greenfield, OK
MARITAL STATUS: Married-2
DATE OF CURRENT ENLISTMENT: 9 Feb 51
DATE OF EST: None indicated
LENGTH OF SERVICE: 27 years, 1 month
AF SC: 2716
EDUCATION: BA, 1938
MILITARY RESERVE
AFFILIATION: None
SSAN: 513-10-4236
DATE ASSIGNED: 14 Jul 65
DUTY TITLE: Lab Chief Assistant
ORGANIZATION: AFATL, Eglin AFB, FL
MAJOR AIR COMMAND: AF SC
CLEARANCE: TOP SECRET, 16 Sep 63, Det 1 SHAPE,
1141st USAF Spc Act Sqd, APO 55 NY; Location of file: DO 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

07D 18-1

HOME OF RECORD:
c/o Llewellyn Co., 7th at
Montgomery, Fort Worth, TX

RACE/SEX:
Caucasian/Male

RECORD OF DISCIPLINARY
ACTION:
None indicated

OTHER PERTINENT
INFORMATION:
Wife: BETTY B. MARRIOTT, 14
Alexandria Place SE, Fort Walton
Beach, FL

Highest Award Held: BSM, 26 Dec 68

TDY to SEA, 28 May to 21 Nov 68

10. On 15 July 1969, OTIS R. FRYE, WS-8, SSAN: 228-10-2575,
    Freight Checker, 320lst Transportation Squadron, Eglin AFB,
    Florida, advised at Eglin AFB, that a review of his files re-
    vealed a copy of a Government Bill of Lading (GBL) Nr Z-6,684,529,
    dated 19 May 1969, which reflected an incoming shipment of fire-
    arms weighing 183 pounds, from Chief, JUSMAG Thailand, Bangkok,
    Thailand, through Charleston, AFB, South Carolina to Eglin AFB,
    Florida. The shipment was marked: USAF ARMAMENT LABORATORY (DOL-
    AFSC) ATTN: LTC P. A. MARRIOTT. The shipment arrived at Eglin
    AFB, Florida on 2 June 1969 and was receipted for by CHARLIE B.
    MOBLEY, SSgt, 3207th AMTS on 7 July 1969. FRYE furnished the above
    document to the writer. A reproduced copy of the document is
    appended to this report as an attachment. The copy furnished by
    FRYE is being retained in the files of OSI District 7 and will be
    released to proper authority upon request.

11. On 15 July 1969, S. F. REEVES, GS-8,SSAN: 261-50-7220,
    Shipment Planner, 3201st Transportation Squadron, Eglin AFB,
    Florida, advised at Eglin AFB that a review of his files revealed
    a copy of a GBL, Nr F-0,648,922, dated 28 March 1969, with an
    attached DD Form 1149 (REQUISITION AND INVOICE/SHIPPING DOCUMENT),
    dated 13 March 1969, Requisition Nr FB2823 9073X100XXX, both of
    which he furnished to the writer. A review of these documents
    revealed that an outgoing shipment consisting of one box of small
    arms ammunition weighing 55 pounds and a box of captured enemy
    weapons, weighing 140 pounds, was shipped from AFATL (ATEL), Eglin
    AFB, Florida 32542 (Mr. COOLEY/882-2328) to Sionics, 1655
    Peachtree Street N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30309, Attn: Mr. FRED
    BROWN. The DD Form 1149 reflects serial numbers for the 11
    weapons as follows: 4514, 1300273, 35285, 68149, 12099391,
    928231, 8414320, 12047120, 411564, 700867 and 930843.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

07D 18-1

A copy of the above mentioned documents are appended to this report as attachments.

12. On 15 July 1969, CLARENCE M. COOLEY, GS-9, SSAN: 505-32-
    7744, Logistics Officer, AFATL (ATDA-Log), was interviewed at Eglin AFB, Florida, and advised as follows: On 13 March 1969, Sgt ARNOLD of his office advised him that there were two boxes of small arms and ammunition in the logistics storage facility for SUBJECT. COOLEY stated that he advised SUBJECT that the arms and ammunition could not be shipped without authorization. SUBJECT therefore requested by letter dated 13 March 1969 that the arms and ammunition be shipped as miscellaneous equipment to Sionics, 1655 Peachtree Street, Atlanta, Georgia 30309, Attn: Mr. FRED BROWN. COOLEY therefore made the arrangements for the shipment and the DD Form 1149, Nr FB2823 9073 X100XXX was executed. A file containing the following documents was furnished to the writer by COOLEY:

a. Original letter dated 13 March 1969, signed by SUBJECT, requesting Mr. COOLEY to ship two boxes of miscellaneous equipment to Sionics.

b. Form letter dated 8 April 1969, to Sionics advising them of the shipment of weapons and ammunition to them; this letter reflects shipment received on 11 April 1969.

c. Two copies of AF Form 1149 (with air movement designator FB 5629 8325X002, 20 Nov 68) reflecting the shipment of a total of 12 captured enemy weapons, 19 magazines, 2 pouches with magazines, and 1 circular drum, from Hq 7 AF DAFSC APO 96307 to ACK 2823 Eglin AFB, FL 32542, marked: Hold for LtCol MARRIOTT..

The above mentioned DD Form 1149 further reflects that an attempt has been made to obliterate one of the serial numbers from the list of 12 weapons. The effaced serial number appears to be 9473736.

COOLEY advised that the box of weapons was opened on 13 March 1969 in the presence of SUBJECT and Sgt ARNOLD, and that they should have knowledge of the missing weapon.

The above mentioned documents are being retained in the files of OSI District 7 and are available to proper authority upon request. Copies of the documents are appended to this report as attachments.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

07D 18-1

13. On 15 July 1969, JOHN C. LYNCH, SMSgt, FR215-22-3876, First Sergeant, AFATL, Eglin AFB, Florida, furnished to the writer the AF Forms 1072 (AUTHORIZED LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE CALLS) for the period from 1 December 1968 to date. A review of these forms disclosed that SUBJECT placed seven long distance telephone calls to either Mr. FRED BROWN or Sionics at telephone numbers 404-873-3672, 404-873-3673, and 404-366-7120 during the period from 2 December 1968 to 9 July 1969. The documents for the pertinent periods are being retained in the files of OSI District 7, available to proper authority upon request.

14. On 15 July 1969, LIDA R. MCEWEN, SSAN: 372-22-1834, Secretary, AFATL, Eglin AFB, Florida, advised that she recalled SUBJECT personally placed a long distance telephone call to Sionics in approximately December 1968.

15. On 16 July 1969, PAUL (NMN) ARNOLD, SSgt, FR489-38-5452, Logistics Office, AFATL, Eglin AFB, Florida, was interviewed at his duty station and advised substantially as follows: On 13 March 1969, SUBJECT informed him that there were two boxes in the AFATL storage facility that had to be shipped out. ARNOLD subsequently went to the storage facility with SUBJECT and Capt JERRY MCEWEN where the two boxes were opened and were found to contain weapons and ammunition. Among the weapons there was one that had apparently been damaged in combat and both SUBJECT and McEWEN expressed a great deal of interest in the weapon. ARNOLD stated that he left the storage facility to proceed to packing and crating to make arrangements for the shipment, and SUBJECT and McEWEN were left alone in the facility with the weapons. ARNOLD stated that he did not see either SUBJECT or McEWEN remove a weapon from that area, but he felt that one or the other took the weapon, therefore explaining why only 11 weapons were shipped to Sionics.

16. On 16 July 1969, JERALD B. MASSEY, Lt Col, 711-14-9602FR, Commander, 3207th AMTS, advised at Eglin AFB, Florida that in approximately February 1969, someone from SUBJECT's office called him to ask if a box of arms could be stored for a few days. He assented and the box was therefore stored in Building 1270 until seized by OSI on 9 July 1969.

17. On 16 July 1969, WARREN G. COOK, CMSgt, FR015-16-6519, 3207th AMTS, advised at Eglin AFB, Florida that on 6 July 1969, SUBJECT called and requested that a box of weapons, which was at that time in the transportation storage locker, be picked up by COOK and placed in the AMTS storage area until such time as SUBJECT could get some plaques made so that the weapons could be


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

07D 18-1

displayed in the AFATL museum. Sgt MOBLEY was therefore instructed by COOK to proceed to transportation and pick up the box of weapons, at which time the weapons were stored in Building 1270 and remained there until seized by OSI on 9 July 1969.

18. On 17 July 1969, SUBJECT was interviewed by GOODMAN, supra, and the writer at OSI Detachment 710, Eglin AFB, Florida. Prior to the interview SUBJECT was advised of the nature of the in- vestigation; of his rights under the provisions of Article 31, UCMJ; of his right to remain silent; his right to have a lawyer present during the interview; and that he could obtain a civilian lawyer of his own choosing, at his own expense, or if he wished, the Air Force would appoint a military lawyer for him free of charge. SUBJECT advised that he wished to waive his rights and made the following verbal statement:

In approximately November 1968, while assigned to 7th Air Force Headquarters, RVN, as a munitions expert, he was ordered by his OIC, Colonel FAGAN, to assist and support WER BELL, the Vice- President of Sionics, to the fullest extent possible. Therefore, when WER BELL asked SUBJECT to send a box of 12 captured weapons to the U.S., SUBJECT complied by sending the weapons through official channels to Eglin AFB, Florida, as he (SUBJECT) con- sidered Sionics, and therefore WER BELL, an official Air Force contractor. On approximately 13 March 1969, at SUBJECT's request, 11 of the 12 weapons sent to Eglin AFB by him were further sent to Sionics, after FRED BROWN, President of Sionics, assured SUBJECT that the weapons had been licensed and registered with the proper authorities. The shipment was sent to Sionics through official government transportation channels, at government expense. SUBJECT also admitted placing approximately 7 long distance tele- phone calls since November 1968 from his office at Eglin AFB, Florida to Sionics or FRED BROWN in Atlanta, Georgia, at govern- ment expense as he (SUBJECT) stated that Sionics is an Air Force contractor. SUBJECT further stated that he had the twelfth weapon that was sent to Eglin AFB from SEA in approximately November 1968 stored in the lock-up room at Range 22, Eglin AFB. SUBJECT also advised that during the approximate period of February to June 1969, two additional boxes of captured enemy weapons were sent to Eglin AFB, Florida (Attn: Lt Col P. A. MARRIOTT) from Bangkok, Thailand, by (to the best of SUBJECT's knowledge) WER BELL. SUBJECT then asked the appropriate personnel at Eglin AFB to store the weapons for safekeeping and SUBJECT stated that if the weapons were not sent to Sionics, he assumed the weapons would be sent to the Air Force museum at Eglin AFB. SUBJECT further stated that as the officer responsible for the Air Force museum,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

07D 18-1

he had been ordered to procure foreign weapons for the museum. SUBJECT stated that he at all times acted as an agent for the USAF, and at no time acted on his own. SUBJECT subsequently released to the writer against proper receipt, an AKA-47 Assault Rifle, S/N 9473736, one of the 12 captured enemy weapons sent by SUBJECT from RVN in approximately November 1968. It was noted that when SUBJECT removed the weapon from the lock-up area at Range 22, Eglin AFB, that it was marked with SUBJECT's name on the stock. The above mentioned weapon is being retained at OSI Detachment 710 by the evidence custodian, available to proper authority upon request.

19. On 18 July 1969, SUBJECT was reinterviewed at OSI Detachment 710 by the writer, in the presence of THOMAS F. KERN, Capt., 579-46-3076FR, Assistant Staff Judge Advocate, after SUBJECT was again advised of his rights as set forth in paragraph 18, above. SUBJECT advised that based on advice of his legal counsel, he wished to make no statement until sometime in the future. The interview was then terminated.

20. On 18 July 1969, Internal Revenue Service Publication 627 (1-69), Gun Control Act of 1968 (Public Law 90-618), was reviewed at Eglin AFB, Florida by the writer. Pertinent portions of this document are set forth as follows:

"Sec. 5844. Importation

"No firearm shall be imported or brought into the United States or any territory under its control or jurisdiction unless the importer establishes, under regulations as may be prescribed by the Secretary or his delegate, that the firearm to be imported or brought in is:

"(1) being imported or brought in for the use of the United States or any department, independent establishment, or agency thereof or any State or possession or any political subdivision thereof, or

"(2) being imported in for scientific or research purposes;
or

"(3) being imported or brought in solely for testing or use as a model by a registered manufacturer or solely for use as a sample by a a registered importer or registered dealer;

********

"Sec. 5845. Definitions


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

07D 18-1

"For the purpose of this chapter:

(7) a muffler or a silencer for any firearm is included

"(b) Machinegun: The term machinegun means any weapon which shoots, is designed to shoot, or can be readily restored to shoot, automatically more than one shot, without manual re- loading, by a single function of the trigger. The term shall also include the frame or receiver of any such weapon, any com- bination of parts designed and intended for use in converting a weapon into a machinegun, and any combination of parts from which a machinegun can be assembled if such parts are in the possession or under the control of a person.

"(c) Rifle: The term rifle means a weapon designed or re- designed, made or remade, and intended to be fired from the shoulder and designed or redesigned and made or remade to use the energy of the explosive in a fixed cartridge to fire only a single projectile through a rifled bore for each single pull of the trigger, and shall include any such weapon which may be readily restored to fire a fixed cartridge.

"Sec 5861. Prohibited Acts

"It shall be unlawful for any person:

"(a) to engage in business as a manufacturer or importer of, or dealer in, firearms without having paid the special (occupational) tax required by section 5801 for his business or having registered as required by section 5802; or

"(b) to receive or possess a firearm transferred to him in violation of the provisions of this chapter; or

"(c) to receive or possess a firearm made in violation of the provisions of this chapter; or

"(d) to receive or possess a firearm which is not registered to him in the National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record; or

"(i) to receive or possess a firearm which is not

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

07D 18-1

"identified by a serial number as required by this chapter; or

"(j) to transport, deliver, or receive any firearm in interstate commerce which has not been registered as required by this chapter; or

"(k) to receive or possess a firearm which has been imported or brought into the United States in violation of section 5844; or

*****

"Sec. 5871. Penalties

"Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $10,000, or be imprisoned not more that ten years, or both, and shall become eligible for parole as the Board of Parole shall determine."

21. On 21 July 1969, WILLIAM M. FAGAN, Colonel, 533-14-6288FV, SUBJECT's former commander in RVN, was interviewed at his summer home in Destin, Florida. Colonel FAGAN executed a sworn statement, pertinent portions of which are set forth as follows:

*****

"On or about 5 Sept 68 I was advised that a Mr. Mitchell Wer Bell of Sionics was arriving at Saigon Airport and would bring some munitions equipment (guns and suppressors) for demonstration ***** "I assigned Lt Col Marriott the task of handling all facets of Mr Wer Bell's visit which he did by meeting Mr Wer Bell at the Commercial Terminal and assisted him to get settled in a hotel. Mr Wer Bell was in RVN as a private citizen and we were aware that he had no security clearance. ******* "I departed on a Trip to CONUS at the end of Nov 68 and returned to Saigon 13 Dec 68. Mr Wer Bell was still in SEA, but I did not know where. I was aware a shipment of guns had gone to Eglin during my absence but had already arranged through the Commander of FTD W-PAFB that we should have shipped such items to FTD and they would forward them to the designated base. I did nothing to counter this Nov 68 shipment as it was going to the A.F. Armament Lab for a "museum".

*****

"In early Feb 69 I found Mr Wer Bell and we concluded that he would leave RVN about 17 Feb 69 and he would give me his MACV form 6 and I would ship back only what he brought over. I was very specific about no enemy weapons being involved and if he had such for the Air Force, that I would ship them to FTD as instructed. After my return from my second CONUS trip on 23 Apr 69 I found that Wer Bell did not depart RVN. I asked around for him and heard many stories of his activities and felt I should take direct action. I called the OSI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

07D 18-1

"about 1 May 69 and made a statement and asked them to investigate. About 7 May I heard Mr Wer Bell was in Bangkok at the President Hotel. I went there with a Capt Gaylord and got back the MACV form 6. On 14 May I turned it over to the OSI. I felt that I had closed out our sponsorship, but also felt his (Wer Bell's) activities in SEA warranted investigation. This is why I went to the OSI. I did not authorize or direct the shipment of any captured enemy weapons to Mr Wer Bell and/or Sionics."

The original of the above statement is being retained in the files of OSI District 7 and will be available to proper authority upon request. A reproduced copy of the statement is appended to this report as an attachment.

ATTACHMENTS:

1.  Photograph of the weapons contained in packing crate Nr 1.
2.  Close-up photograph of first half of weapons contained in packing crate Nr. 1.
3.  Close-up photograph of second half of weapons contained in packing crate Nr 1.
4.  Photograph of the weapons contained in packing crate Nr 2.
5.  Close-up photograph of first half of weapons contained in packing crate Nr 2.
6.  Close-up photograph of second half of weapons contained in packing crate Nr 2.
7.  Photograph of light machine gun contained in packing crate Nr. 2.
8.  Close-up photograph of noise suppressor contained in packing crate Nr 1.
9.  Overall photograph of noise suppressor contained in packing crater Nr 1.
10. Exploded view of noise suppressor contained in packing crate Nr1.
11. Exploded view of noise suppressor with extra piece of equipment contained in packing crate Nr 1.
12. Bore shot of suppressor contained in packing crate Nr 1.
13. GBL, Nr Z-6, 684,529, dated 19 May 1969.
14. GBL, Nr F-0,648,922, dated 28 Mar 69.
15. DD Form 1149, dated 14 March 1969..
16. Letter signed by SUBJECT, dated 13 March 1969.
17. Form letter sent to Sionics, dated 8 April 1969.
18. DD Form 1149, signed by SUBJECT in RVN, reflecting the shipment of 12 captured enemy weapons.
19. Reproduced copy of statement executed by Colonel FAGAN on 21 July 1969.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

07D 18-1

FOR COMDR, EGLIN AFB
FOR DIR OSI
FOR DO 51
FOR FILE

Atchs 1 - 19

PENDING

15

1470

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 16


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

> [Figure] An assortment of AK-47 rifles, magazines, and various other firearms. The firearms are arranged on a light-colored surface with a backdrop of grass or a similar outdoor setting. The array includes several AK-47 variants with different stock configurations and accessories. Additionally, there are magazines, various scopes, and other firearm-related components.

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 17

CTD 18-1 Atch 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

> [Figure: Photograph of the weapons contained in packing crate Nr 1. Assorted rifles, submachine guns, and ammunition magazines are laid out on a white sheet against a backdrop of grass.]

![photo of weapons in packing crate]

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 18


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

> [Figure] The figure shows several firearms and magazines laid out on a surface, likely for inspection or documentation. There are seven rifles, which appear to be AK-47 variants and possibly one LMG(Light Machine Gun). Additionally, there are several magazines, possibly for an H-3 submachine gun.

L7 MG (CHICOH)
93022.8.

AK 47
KZ10682

AK 47
11062936

CHICOM BURP
368603

AK 47
12057463

AK47
9004420

AK 47 (Foc Sik)
6101038

SWEDISH K
502166

MAGIZINES
FOR
H-3 Sub-MG


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

![Collection of firearms and magazines laid out on a surface, possibly for inventory or display purposes.]

CHICAM BURP
368603

AK 47 (For Stk)
6101038

17 MG (CNICOH)
930228

AK 47
AK 47
11062936
AK 47
12,057463
K210682

AK47
9004420

MAGIZINES
FOR
11.3 Sub-MG

SWEDISH K
502164

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992 1472
14 AUG 95

Close-up photograph of first half of weapons contained in packing crate Dr 1

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

> [Figure] This figure contains 4 guns: Swedish K 9mm 502166, B40 RL AF305, B40 RL 902098, and M-14 4800. Additionally the figure contains 4.5 May magzine and Wire. Hod. S 69494-B.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

> [Figure: Close-up photograph of second half of weapons contained in packing crate Nr. L.]
> ![photo of weapons including rifles, ammunition magazines, and grenade launchers.]

SWEDISH K 9mm

502-164

B40 RL

AF305

B40 RL

902098

45 Mag

M-14

4800

M-16 Mag

Wine. Hod. S.

69494-3

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992

14 AUG 95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

> [Figure] A photograph features an assortment of weapons arranged on a white sheet against a textured background.
> 
> On the left side of the image, there are magazines for firearms. Adjacent to them, two rocket launchers, each equipped with scopes, are displayed. Following these, three rifles are positioned, succeeded by an Uzi submachine gun. The last weapon on the display is a pistol. To the side of the rifles, an additional magazine has been placed. Lastly, a rifle is presented against a grass-like background.

3-40R, B-40 Rocket
Launcher
With
NO 707:
SOR # 5 10

Ass Rifle
. OR # 449

AP-47
THICOM SYED GUN
334002

US M3A1
607613

NALS FOR M3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

![photo of weapons]

> [Figure] This image shows a variety of weapons laid out on a light-colored sheet or surface, contrasted against a darker, possibly grassy or textured background. The weapons include rocket launchers, rifles (possibly AK-47 variants), submachine guns, and what appear to be magazines or ammunition clips. There are handwritten labels or markings next to some of the weapons, providing identifying information or serial numbers. The composition suggests the weapons are being displayed for documentation or inventory purposes.

3-40 B-40 Rocotiches
With
SoR510
80 7078

A
JR449
C
Ambs 764 M3
36
7.2.160

AK-47
Cilicon
1334002

45.1341
607613

US-THOMPSON
.455 SMGUN
1-255947

7.62 MAG
BURP64

1474

Photograph of the wagons contained in packing crate lir. 2

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

> [Figure] Weapons including, from left to right, two B-40 Rocket Launchers, one Assault Rifle, and one SKS-47 rifle.

...
MG
212.160
W/02

B-40 Rocket Launcher
(Russian)
With Sa-pe 5064

B-40 Rocket Launcher
(Russian)
With...HO 767

Assault Rifle
SR# 14449

SKS-47
S16# 1209191
Chicen

07D 18-1 Atch 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

> [Figure: Photo of several weapons laid out on a white sheet.]
> Description:
> The photo shows four weapons. From left to right: a B-40 Rocket Launcher (Russian) with scope; a B-40 Rocket Launcher; an Assault Rifle; and an AK-47.

CHI
MG
212160

B-40 Rocket Launcher
(Russian)
With Scope 96064.
76434

B-40 Rocket
Launcher
With
Scope + 210
110 7671

Assault
Rifle
IR 14449

AK-47
SIP# 1209191
CHI CO

1474A

Reviewed By AFOST
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

OAD 18-1
202.

Close-up photograph of weapons contained in packing crate Nr 8.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

> [Figure] An assortment of various types of firearms and magazines laid out on a white surface. The collection includes rifles, submachine guns, and various magazine types and pouches.

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 27


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

> [Figure: Photograph of weapons, magazines and equipment laid out on a white surface with a background of dirt and grass. The items include several assault rifles, magazines, ammunition pouches, and other accessories.]

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 28

1475

Photograph of second half of weapons contained in packing crate No 2

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

> [Figure] A firearm lying on the ground next to an ammunition magazine.

NW 88613 DocId:34530447 Page 29


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

> [Figure] The photograph shows a light machine gun contained in packing crate number 2.

![photo of light machine gun contained in packing crate number 2]

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 30


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

> [Figure] A close-up photograph showcases a segment of an artillery gun barrel. The barrel is cylindrical, and the image captures the front portion, showing the opening from which projectiles would be fired. The exterior of the barrel is marked with inscriptions, including the text 'U.S. SUPRLS. REZ. BLA.'

OTD 13-1 Atch 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

> [Figure] Close-up photograph of noise suppressor contained in packing crate Nr 1

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

1477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

> [Figure] Photograph of a metallic cylindrical object with fittings on top and side

NW 88613 DocId:34530447 Page 33

CFB 18-2 Atch 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

> [Figure: An overall photograph of a noise suppressor]
> The noise suppressor is a cylindrical object with a slightly wider top section and a long, narrow body. It is dark in color and appears to be made of metal. The suppressor is positioned vertically.

1478

Overall photograph of neise suppressor contained in pooling crate K 1.

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 34

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

> [Figure] Components including tube, cap and ruler.

![photo of components including tube, cap and ruler]

OTD 15-1 Atch 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

> [Figure: An exploded view of a noise suppressor, including a ruler placed next to the suppressor for scale. The noise suppressor is disassembled into its individual components.]

Exploded view of noise amppressor contained in packing erste für

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 36

Reviewed by AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 Aug 95

-1-479


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

> [Figure] Photograph of several metal parts arranged on a white surface, next to a ruler.

NW 88613 DocId:34530447 Page 37


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

![photo of disassembled suppressor with a ruler for scale]

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

1400

Exploded view of noise suppressor with extra piece of equipment contained in packing crate Nr. 1

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 38


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

> [Figure] A photograph of a circular object with a toothed edge, possibly a gear or a wheel, set against a dark background.

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 39


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

> [Figure] A close-up shot of a suppressor contained in a packing crate.

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992.
14 AUG 95

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 40


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# Z-6,684,529

B/L NO.

TRANSPORTATION CONTROL NO.
AT0995 9139 X001xxx

DESTINATION
EGLIN AFB, FLA. (DDD 30 MAY 69 IPD 03)

MARKS
TRANS PRI 1
M/F: USAF ARMAMENT LABORATORY (DOL-AFSC)
ATTN: LTC PA.MARRIOTT

FROM (Shipping Point)
CHARLESTON AFB,S.C.

FULL NAME OF SHIPPER
ΤΜΟ 437ΤΗ MAW CHARLESTON AFB,S.C.29404

F.O.B. POINT NAMED IN CONTRACT
CHARGES TO BE BILLED TO (DEPARTMENT OR ESTABLISHMENT, BUREAU OR SERVICE AND LOCATION)
FINANCE CENTER
TRANSPORTATION DIVISION, U. S. ARMY
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 46249

APPROPRIATION CHARGEABLE
PEC62702D =
97X0400.1311 1270 P9G10 0600 5830399

| PACKAGES NO. | KIND | DESCRIPTION OF ARTICLES (Use Carriers' Classification or Tariff Description if Possible, Otherwise a Clear Nontechnical Description.) | WEIGHTS*     |
| ------------ | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 1            | BX   | FIREARMS, NOI (NMFC: 69300) HANDLE I A W, APR 205-1                                                                                   | CUBE 8.8 183 |

CONTRACT, PURCHASE ORDER OR OTHER AUTHORITY FOR SHIPMENT

CARRIER'S AGENT
![Signature]
REA

DATE OF SHIPMENT
5-28-69

ISSUING OFFICE
ΤΜΟ 437ΤΗ MAW CHARLESTON AFB,S.C. 29404

ISSUING OFFICER
![Signature]
P.B. BOOME, DAFC

DATE
FOR 26 MAY 69

CONSIGNEE COPY
3

1402

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

07018-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# GOVERNMENT BILL OF LADING
## MEMORANDUM COPY

**BIL NO.** F-0,648,922

**TRAFFIC CONTROL NO**

**IMPORTANT**

When the original of this bill of lading is surrendered to the initial carrier a memorandum copy thereof so certified must be forwarded to the consignee immediately.

RECEIVED BY THE TRANSPORTATION COMPANY NAMED ABOVE. SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS NAMED ON THE REVERSE OF THE ORIGINAL BILL OF LADING, THE PROPERTY HEREINAFTER DESCRIBED, IN APPARENT GOOD ORDER AND CONDITION (CONTENTS AND VALUE UNKNOWN), TO BE FORWARDED TO DESTINATION BY THE SAID COMPANY AND CONNECTING LINES. THERE TO BE DELIVERED IN LIKE GOOD ORDER AND CONDITION TO SAID CONSIGNEE.

**CONSIGNEE (NAME AND MAILING ADDRESS)**

STONICS

1655 PEACHTREE STREET, N.W.

ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30309

**DESTINATION**

ATLANTA, GEORGIA IFD:03 DDD:4 APRIL 1969

VIA (ROUTE SHIPMENT ONLY WHEN SOME SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT IS SERVED THEREBY)

**FROM**

(SHIPPING POINT) EGLIN AFB, FLA. 32542

**FULL NAME OF SHIPPER**

TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT OFFICER

**MARKS**

MIFS MR. FRED BROWN

Reviewed by AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992

14 Aug 95

CHARGES TO BE BILLED TO (DEPARTMENT OR ESTABLISHMENT, BUREAU OR SERVICE AND LOCATION)

FINANCE CENTER
TRANSPORTATION DIVISION
U. S. ARMY
INDIANAPOLIS 49, INDIANA

**APPROPRIATION CHARGEABLE**

(0859-72) 57X3600 289 4769 P6706 CD 5527900

CONTRACTORS WILL RETURN UNUSED OR CANCELED BILLS OF LADING TO GOVERNMENT OFFICE FROM WHICH RECEIVED.

| NO. | KIND | DESCRIPTION OF ARTICLES (USE CARRIERS' CLASSIFICATION OR TARIFF DESCRIPTION IF POSSIBLE; OTHERWISE A CLEAR NONTECHNICAL DESCRIPTION) | NUMBERS ON PACKAGES | WEIGHTS* |
| --- | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------- | -------- |
| 1   | BX   | TCN EB2923 9073 X100 XXX FIREARMS OR PARTS, NOI(NMFC:69300)                                                                          |                     | 140      |
| 1   | BX   | SMALL-ARMS AMMUNITION(CARTRIDGES, SMALL ARM, BLANK OR LOADED)(NMFC:13940)                                                            |                     | 55       |
| 2   | FCS  | "CLASS C" EXPLOSIVES                                                                                                                 |                     |          |
|     |      | TOTAL                                                                                                                                |                     |          |


AUTE: AFN 75-2 PARA 205804 (b) (4)

This is to certify that the above named articles are properly described, and are packed and marked and are in proper condition for transportation according to the regulations prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission.

James Brown

IF THIS SHIPMENT FULLY LOADS THE CAR OR TRUCK USED, CHECK YES

CARRIER FURNISHED PICK UP- TRAP CAR-

SERVICE AT ORIGIN INITIALS OF SHIPPER'S AGENT

CERTIFICATE OF ISSUING OFFICER

I CERTIFY THAT THIS SHIPMENT IS MADE PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF CONTRACT OR PURCHASE ORDER NO. SEE ABOVE DATED

OR OTHER AUTHORITY FOR SHIPMENT, F.O.B. POINT NAMED IN CONTRACT

ISSUING OFFICE EGLIN AFB, FLA

SIGNATURE OF ISSUING OFFICER GEORGE HOLLINHEAD JR, TMO

DATE

TITLE

# MEMORANDUM COPY

CARRIER FURNISHED DELIVERY- TRAP CAR

SERVICE AT DESTINATION. AYCL-14

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 42
070 18-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# REQUISITION AND INVOICE/SHIPPING DOCUMENT

1. FROM
   AFATL (ATEL) Eglin AFB, Fla. 32542

2. TO
   (Mr. Cooley/882-2328)

3. SHIP TO MARK FOR
   Atlanta, Ga. 30309

SIONICS
1655 Peachtree Street N.E.
Atlanta, Georgia 30309
Attn: Mr. Fred Brown

5. REQUISITION DATE
   9073

6. REQUISITION NO.
   FB2823 9073 X100XXX

7. DATE MATERIEL REQUIRED

8. PRIORITY
   03

9. AUTHORITY OR PURPOSE
   ltu ATS 13 mor 69

10. SIGNATURE
    Lday

11a. VOUCHER NUMBER AND DATE
70T00641

14. BILL OF LADING NUMBER
    FOG48922

| ITEM NO. | FEDERAL STOCK NUMBER, DESCRIPTION, AND CODING OF HATERIEL AND/OR SERVICES                                                  | QUANITY REQUESTED | SUPPLY ACTION | UNIT PRICE | TOTAL COST |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| 1-       | Captured Enemy Weapons, Serial #4514; 1300273; 35285; 689149; 12099391; 928231; 8414320; 12047120; 411564; 700867; 930843. | ea 11             | V-11          | 1405       |            |
| 2        | Box Small Arms Ammo.                                                                                                       | ea 1              | V-1           |            |            |

XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX LAST ITEM XXXXXXXXXXXXXX

![putice description]
Item # 2
![signature]
Explosive.

Signed receipt requested by this organization

| TOTAL CONTAINERS | TYPE CONTAINER | TOTAL WEIGHT | TOTAL CUBE |
| ---------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- |
| 1                | 45x15x13       | 55           | 3          |
| 2                | 45x15x15       | 140          | 6          |

Box 55 # 3w 139440
Box 140# 64. 69300

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
![signature]
14 AUG 95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE ARMAMENT LABORATORY (AFSC)
EGLIN AIR FORCE DASE, FLORIDA 32542

REPLY TO
ATTN OF: ATS (882-1640)

13 March 1969

SUBJECT: Shipment of Miscellaneous Equipment

TO: ATEL (Mr. Clarence M. Cooley)

1. Please ship two boxes of miscellaneous equipment to:

SIONICS
1655 Peachtree Street, N.E.
Atlanta, Georgia 30309
Attn: Mr. Fred Brown

2. It will be necessary to add packing material and band the boxes prior to shipment.

3. Sgt Arnold knows which boxes are to be shipped and their location. I suggest he handle the project.

4. Please make this a priority shipment.

PAUL A. MARRIOTT, Lt Col, USAF
Assistant for Systems Support


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE ARMAMENT LABORATORY (AFSC)
EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE, FLORIDA 32542

MISC

REPLY TO
ATTN OF: ATEL (Mr. Cooley/882-2328) 8 April 1969

SUBJECT: Shipment of Project Support Equipment, Project Number Misc.

TO:
Sionics
1655 Peachtree St. NE
Attn: Mr. Fred Brown
Atalanta, Ga. 30309

1. The following equipment/supplies is being shipped to your activity on the subject project number:

| Nomenclature           | Stock/Part No. | Qty | Requisition Number GBL or Air Bill   |
| ---------------------- | -------------- | --- | ------------------------------------ |
| Weapons                | N/A            | 11  | FB2823 9073 X100XXX Shipped 1 Apr 69 |
| Magazines              | N/A            | 19  | REA Express                          |
| Pouches                | N/A            | 2   | GBL F0648922                         |
| Circular Drum          | N/A            | 1   |                                      |
| 7.62 Munition in clips |                |     |                                      |

2. Please notify this office (ATEL) if the listed property is not received by the required in-place date of 15 Apr 69.

3. Immediately upon receipt of all the listed property, please sign below and return one copy of this letter to AFATL (ATEL/Mr. Cooley), Eglin AFE, Florida, 32542. Reply required for accounting purposes.

FOR THE COMMANDER

WM F. KINDRED
Logistics Support Officer

THE ABOVE LISTED MATERIEL

WAS RECFTVED ON 4-11-69
Date

Signature and Date 4-11-69

1406

070 18-1

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95-

atch-17

NW 88613 DocId:34530447 Page 45


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# REQUISITION AND INVOICE/SHIPPING DOCUMENT

1. FROM:
   11th ZAF DAFSC AD 96307(4874)
2. TO:
   ACK 2823 EGIN AFB, FLA. 32542
3. SHIP TO MARK FOR:
   HOLD FOR HOOL MARRIOTT

7. DATE MATERIEL REQUIRED:
9. AUTHORITY OR PURPOSE:
   OFL USE AF ARM. LAB..
10. SIGNATURE:
12. DATE SHIPPED:
13. MODE OF SHIPMENT:
    FB 529
14. BILL OF LADING NUMBER:
15. AIR MOVEMENT DESIGNATOR OR PORT REFERENCE NUMBER:
    FB 5969 8325X002

| ITEM NO. | FEDERAL STOCK NUMBER, DESCRIPTION, AND CODING OF MATERIEL AND/OR SERVICES               | UNIT OF ISSUE | QUANTITY REQUESTED | SUPPLY ACTION | TYPE CON. | CON. TAINER NOS. | UNIT PRICE | TOTAL COST |
| -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | ------------------ | ------------- | --------- | ---------------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| a        | b                                                                                       | c             | d                  | e             | f         | g                | h          | i          |
|          | CAPTURED FHEMY WEAPONS (HTBARC)                                                         |               |                    |               |           |                  |            |            |
|          | 4514; 600273; 35285; 689149;12099391; 928231; 8414320; 12047120; 411564; 700867; 930843 |               | 12                 |               |           |                  |            |            |
|          | MAGAZINES                                                                               |               | 19                 |               |           |                  |            |            |
|          | POUCHES WITH MAGAZINES                                                                  |               | 2                  |               |           |                  |            |            |
|          | CIRCULAR DRUM                                                                           |               | 1                  |               |           |                  | 1.47       |            |


16. TRANSPORTATION VIA MATS OR MISTS CHARGEABLE TO:

17. SPECIAL HANDLING

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

STATEMENT OF WITNESS

Destin Flordia
(Place)

21 July 69
(Date)

I, Col. William M. Fagan 533-14-6288 FV, hereby state that Grover C. Ayers, JR. as Special Agent has identified himself to me USAF.
(Special Agent OSI, Air Police Investigator, Other-Specify)

I do hereby voluntarily and of my own free will make the following statement without having been subjected to any coercion, unlawful influence or unlawful inducement.

On or about 5 Sept 68 I was advised that a Mr. Mitchell Wer Bell of Sionics was arriving at Saigon Airpont and would bring some munition equipment (guns and suppressors) for demonstration to Air Force units and other U.S. forces as we in Det 6 of ASD (AFSC) thought worthwhile. The prime picse of equipment to be demonstrateur was the Sionics Suppressor. This notice of arrival came from ASD (ASJ) Wright-Patterson a 73 Ohio. I assigned It Col Marriott the taste of handling all freets of Mr Wer Bell's visit which he died by meeting Mr Wer Bell at the Commercial Terminal and assisted him to get settled in a hotel. Mr Wer Bell was RUN as a private citizen and we were aware that he had no security clearance. We hosted him to the extent that we obtained a MACE forum, 6, Identification and Privilege Card, and Col Marrilet, at my instructions, set upp a demonstration of his equipment (Wer Bell's) for the Army, Navy, Air force and ARPA people on the UNAF firing range. Prior to the demonstration I had received notifie and did receive a bot (about 3of54) of Iqrupnents for the demonstration. It had couc Nie MAC anleft out of Charlestari and was addressed to me at 7TH AF (DAESC).

AF FORM 1169
Sep 61

Page 1 of 3 Pages
w.m,7,

07018-1 ATCH-19

NW 88613 Docld:34530447 Page 47


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

After several weeks of Mr. W. Bell's traveling around through SEA I was becoming concerned and wanted to lose of out his business and send him home. In the month of Nov 68 I located him and instructed him that I felt our business was over and he should prepare to leave - or at least we would withdraw our sponsorship of him (the only concern was that he had a MACU form 6 that showed ASD as his sponsor). I departed on a Trip to CONUS at the end of Nov 68 and returned to Saigon 13 Dec 68. Mr. Wer Bell was still in SEA, but I did not know where. I was aware a shipment of guns had gone to Eglin during my absence but had already arranged through the Commander of FTD W-PAFB that we should have shipped such items to FTD and they would to spots forward them to the designated base. I did nothing to counter this Nov 68 shipment as it was going to the A.7, Armament Lab for a "museum". (On a later trip to CONUS nil marchi95 advised Col Widubicer (FTD Commander) of the one shipment). I had no knowledge for authorized any other shipment. The Nov 68 shipment was intended for Air Force use and there was no knowledge or intent on my part that they were to be sent to Sionies.

In early Feb 69 I found Mr. Wer Bell and we concluded that he would leave RUN about 17 Feb 69 and he would give me his MACU form 6 and I would ship back only what he brought over. I was very specific about no enemy weapons being involved and

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

PAGE 2 of 3 PAGES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

Conti, ation Sheet for AF Form 1168 and 1169

If he had such for the air force, that I would ship them to FTD as instructed. After my return from my second CONUS trip on 23Apr 69 I found that Wer Bell did not depart RUN. I asked around for him and heard many stories of his activities and felt I should take direct action. I called the OSI about 1 May 69 and made a statement and asked them to investigate. About 7 May I heard Mr Wer Bell was in Bangkok at the President Hotel, I went there with a Capt Gaylord and got back the MACV form 6. On 14 May I turned it over to the OSI. I felt that I had closed out our sponsorship, but also felt his (Wer Bell's) activities in SEA warranted investigation. This is why I went to the OSI. I did not authorize or direct the shipment of any captured enemy weapons to Mr Wer Bell and/or Sionics.

I further state that I have read this entire statement, initialed all pages and corrections, and signed this statement, and that it is correct and true as written.

William M Fagan
(Signature)

110 Alden Dr. Ft Walton Bch
(Address)
Fla.

WITNESSES:

(Address)

(Address)

Subscribed and sworn to before me, a person authorized by law to administer oaths, this 21st day of July 1969 at DESTIN, FLORIDA.

(Signature of person administering oath)

GROVER C. AYERS, JR.
(Typed name of person administering oath)

SPECIAL AGENT-OSI
(Official title and grade)

Reviewed By AFOSI
For Public Disclosure
In Accordance With
JFKARCA, 1992
14 AUG 95

AF FORM 1170
Sep 61

Page 3 of 3 Pages
W.m.7

NW 88613 DocId:34530447 Page 49


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)