Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date: 01/14/98
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10359
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 9-10

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 03/26/69
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

COMMUNISM, VIEWS ON

AFFIDAVIT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34529175 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# STATEMENT BY ACCUSED OR SUSPECT PERSON

PLACE

An Khe, Republic of Vietnam

LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MIDDLE NAME

MARTI, Manuel NMN

ORGANIZATION OR ADDRESS

Headquarters and Headquarters Battery, 4th Bn. 60th Artillery, APO 96294

PART I. WAIVER CERTIFICATE

I HAVE BEEN INFORMED BY William L. Brooks, Special Agent
OF US Army Intelligence Corps

THAT HE WANTS TO QUESTION ME ABOUT association with possible members of the Communist Party
OF WHICH I AM ACCUSED OR SUSPECTED. HE HAS ALSO INFORMED ME OF MY RIGHTS.
I UNDERSTAND THAT I HAVE THE RIGHT TO REMAIN SILENT AND THAT ANY STATEMENT I MAKE MAY BE
USED AS EVIDENCE AGAINST ME IN A CRIMINAL TRIAL.
I UNDERSTAND THAT I HAVE THE RIGHT TO CONSULT WITH COUNSEL AND TO HAVE COUNSEL PRESENT
WITH ME DURING QUESTIONING. I MAY RETAIN COUNSEL AT MY OWN EXPENSE OR COUNSEL WILL BE APPOINTED FOR
ME AT NO EXPENSE. TO ME IF I AM SUBJECT TO THE UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE, APPOINTED COUNSEL
MAY BE MILITARY COUNSEL OF MY OWN CHOICE IF HE IS REASONABLY AVAILABLE.
I UNDERSTAND THAT EVEN IF I DECIDE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS NOW WITHOUT HAVING COUNSEL PRESENT,
I MAY STOP ANSWERING QUESTION AT ANY TIME. ALSO, I MAY REQUEST COUNSEL AT ANYTIME DURING QUESTIONING.

(DO NOT) WANT COUNSEL.

(DO) WANT TO MAKE A STATEMENT AND ANSWER QUESTIONS.



INTEROGATOR: Donald M. Miyoshi

(Signature)

DONALD M. MIYOSHI, SPECIAL AGENT
55TH MI DETACHMENT (CORPS)
(Typed Name and Organization)

1, Manuel Marti WANT TO MAKE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT UNDER

WITNESS: William L. Brooks

(Signature)

WILLIAM L. BROOKS, SPECIAL AGENT
55TH MI DETACHMENT (CORPS)
(Typed Name and Organization)

PART II. SWORN STATEMENT

Question. What are your views on communism as practiced in the world today?

Answer. I think the communists are trying to take over the world. I don't go for it.

Q. Have you ever participated in any communist party activities?

A. None.

Q. Have you ever associated with any members of the communist party?

A. Not to my knowledge.

Q. What organizations or associations do you belong to?

A. I belong to the American Stamp Dealers Association. STAMP COLLECTORS ORGANIZATION.

Q. Any others?

A. No.

Q. What degree of influence did your parents' political ideologies and activities have on you?

A. My Mother wasn't too interested in politics. My father is a Democrat but he doesn't always agree with the ideas of either party or with the candidates. My father's political ideologies have not been an influence. Sometimes I agree with my father and other times I don't.

Q. What is your attitude toward military service?

A. Like everyone else, if I didn't have to be here I wouldn't. I don't object to being in the military.

Q. What is your attitude toward service in Vietnam?

EXHIBIT INITIALS OF PERSON MAKING STATEMENT PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

ADDITIONAL PAGES MUST CONTAIN THE HEADING "STATEMENT OF TAKEN AT DATED CONTINUED." THE
BOTTOM OF EACH ADDITIONAL PAGE MUST BEAR THE INITIALS OF THE PERSON MAKING THE STATEMENT AND BE
INITIALED AS "PAGE_ OF PAGES." WHEN ADDITIONAL PAGES ARE UTILIZED, THE BACK OF PAGE 1 WILL BE LIN-
ED OUT, AND THE STATEMENT WILL BE CONCLUDED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF ANOTHER COPY OF THIS FORM.

DA FORM 2820

REPLACES DA FORM 19-24, 1 SEP 62, WHICH IS OBSOLETE.

NW 88613 Docld:34529175 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

STATEMENT (Continued)

A. I like serving in Vietnam better than in the States.

Q. What is your attitude toward US Policy in Vietnam?

A. From what I have read and what I know I think we should be here. I think we should be in Vietnam to keep communism from spreading.

Q. Do you support the United States Constitution in its entirety?

A. I do.

Q. Do you owe your allegiance to the United States?

A. I do.

Q. Do you have anything further to add to this statement?

A. No.

///END OF STATEMENT///



AFFIDAVIT

I, Manuel Marti HAVE READ OR HAVE HAD READ TO ME THIS STATEMENT WHICH BEGINS ON PAGE 1 AND ENDS ON PAGE 2. I FULLY UNDERSTAND THE CONTENTS OF THE ENTIRE STATEMENT MADE BY ME. THE STATEMENT IS TRUE. I HAVE INITIALED ALL CORRECTIONS AND HAVE INITIALED THE BOTTOM OF EACH PAGE CONTAINING THE STATEMENT. I HAVE MADE THIS STATEMENT FREELY WITHOUT HOPE OF BENEFIT OR REWARD, WITHOUT THREAT OF PUNISHMENT, AND WITHOUT COERCION, UNLAWFUL INFLUENCE, OR UNLAWFUL INDUCEMENT.





Manut
(Signature of Person Making Statement)


WITNESSES:

WILLIAM L. BROOKS SPECIAL AGENT
55TH MI DETACHMENT (CORPS)

Subscribed and sworn to before me, a person authorized by law to administer oaths, this 26 day of March, 1969 at An Khe, Republic of Vietnam


Donald M. Much
(Signature of Person Administering Oath)


DONALD M. MIYOSHI, SPECIAL AGENT
(Typed Name of Person Administering Oath)


UCMJ 136b
(Authority To Administer Oaths)



INITIALS OF PERSON MAKING STATEMENT

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

NW 88613 Docld:34529175 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)