Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 12/10/97
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10006-10300
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC640653W-PAGES 12-14

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : CO, 66TH MI GP
TO : DCSI, USAREUR
TITLE : MESSAGE
DATE : 03/20/72
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : KAMINSKI, HANS D

CI INTEREST

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94. DUPLICATE OF PAGES 7-9.

NW 88613 Docld:34530593 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# PRIORITY

CC NR
1248
This look too long

NDA 011
PTTCZYUW UUFTD0298 0801431-CCCC--UUFTB.
ZNY
ICN ONLY
P 201400Z MAR 72
FM CO 66TH MI GP MUNICH FRG //AEUTMI-OP-CE//
TO DCSI USAREUR HEIDELBERG FRG//AEAGB-CI (SO)//
BT
THE FOLLOWING MESSAGE IS RETRANSMITTED FOR YOUR INFORMATION:
0 091100Z FEB 72
FM CO 165TH MI CO FRANKFURT FRG //AEUTMI-F-CI//
TO CO 66TH MI GP MUNICH FRG //AEUTMI-CE//
BT
AEUTMI-F-CE
SUBJECT: INCIDENT OF POSSIBLE CI INTEREST

1. AT 110 HOURS, 1 FEB 72, LT HAYGOOD, HQ, 66TH USA ARTILLERY
   DETACHMENT, SOEST (MC 3813), FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (FRG),
   CONTACTED THE DUESSELDORF FIELD OFFICE TO REPORT AN INCIDENT OF
   AN UNIDENTIFIED PERSON ATTEMPTING TO ELLICIT OFFICLA INFORMATION
   FROM A MEMBER OF C TEAM, 66TH USA ARTILLERY DETACHMENT, DATELN
   ((LC 8424), FRG.

2. LT KULESZA, COMMANDING OFFICER, C TEAM, 66TH USA ARTILLERY
   DETACHMENT, STATED THAT HE WAS INFORMED BY A MEMBER OF HIS UNIT
   THAT AN ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN OFFICIAL INFORMATION HAD TAKEN PLACE
   IN DATELN ON 31 JAN 72. KULESZA WAS ABLE TO DETERMINE THAT
   THREE OTHER MEMBERS OF HIS UNIT HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY THE SAME
   PERSON IN THE AREA IN AN ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION.

3. THE FOLOWING LISTED INDIVIDUALS OF C TEAM, 66TH USA ARTILLERY

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 2 Sep94
BY CDR USAINSCOM F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.18

NW 88613 Docld:34530593 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

PAGE 2 UUFTF 1334

DETACHMENT WERE APPROACHED BY THE UNKNOWN INDIVIDUAL :
A. PETER D. HERPS, PFC, 475-54-6972
B. PHILLIP W. MAY, PFC, 544-48-5481, CUSTODIAL AGENT.
C. STEPHEN R. WILSON, SP4, 167-40-2332,, CLERK.
D. ROBERT M. CREED, SP4, 514-54-474,5, GUARD.

4. ALL LISTED MEMBERS OF C TEAM HAVE BEEN INTERVIEWED BY SA'S
   OF DUESSELDORF FIELD OFFICE.

5. A DESCRIPTION OF THE INDIVIDUAL SOLICITING THE INFORMATION IS
   AS FOLLOWD:
   A. NAME: "JOHN THE DEE JAY" AKA: JOHN DEE JAY AKA: HOHN
   B. OCCUPATION: DISC JOCKEY AT THE LORD NELSON BAR, DATEIN
   C. HEIGHT: SIX FEET
   D. WEIGHT: 190 PUNDS
   E. BUILD: SLIGHT
   F. HAIR: BLACK WITH LONG SIDEBURNS
   G. DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS: NONE

6. ATTEMPTS ARE CURRENTLY BEING MADE THROUGH GERMAN CHANNELS TO
   BOTAIN POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION OF JOHN DEE JAY.

7. JOHN DEE JAY SPEACKS RUSSIAN GERMAN SPANISH AND ENGLISH. HE HAS
   EXPRESSED PROTEST SENTIMENTS AND HAS SAID HE HAD BEEN TO

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 2 Sep94
BY CDR USAINSCOM F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.18

NW 88613 Docld:34530593 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

PAGE 3 UUFTE1334

MOSCOW, USSR, WHERE HE LEARNED TO SPEAK ENGLISH. HE CLAIMED TO
HAVE A COUSIN OR NEPHEW WHO IS A MAJOR IN THE GERMAN DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (GDR) ARMY. HE ALLEGEDLY TRAVELS FREQUENTLYTO THE GDR
AND HAS EXPRESSED A DESIRE TO RETURN THERE TO LIVE BECAUSE
HE HATED THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY. HE IS EXTREMELY KNOW-
LEDGABLE ABOUT THINGS PERTAINING TO THE MILITARY. HE KNEW THE
EXACT DEPARTURE TIME, LOCATION, INTERMEDIATE STOPS, AND FINAL
DESTINATION OF A RECENT CONVOY WHOSE MISSION WAS TO EXCHANGE
WARHEADS AT SASCOM UNITS. JOHN DEE JAY ASKED ROBERT M. CREED,
IDENTIFIED IN PARA 4 TO BRING HIM SOME WAR AND ARMY BOOKS. ALL
HE, JOHN, WANTED WERE SOME WAR STORIES, NOTHING ABOUT NORAD OR
SANRAS (SPECIAL AMMUNITIONS RECOGNITION AND AUTHENTICATION
SYSTEM).

8. JOHN DEE JAY MENTIONED AN ASSOCIATION (NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED)
   WITH SSG (USAF) FNU ALEXANDER, SECTION NCOIC, HOPSTEN (NCA), FRG,
   WHO WORKS AS A SECURITY SERGEANT AT THE USAF ESR SITE THERE.

9. THE S-2, SASCOM HEADQUARTERS, FRANKFURT GER AND THE OSI
   WERE BRIEFED ON 8 FEB 72.

10. INVESTIGATIVE ACTION WILL CONTINUE AT THIS COMPANY AND
    RESULTS WILL BE FORWARDED UPON RECEIPT. GP-3

BT
0298

![DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS; NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED DOD DIR 5200.10]

![REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 Sep94 BY CDR USAINSCOM F01/PO AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R]

NNNN

14

NW 88613 Docld:34530593 Page 4


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)