Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date: 01/14/98
Page: 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10379
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 35-37

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/18/68
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE (SUPERVISOR)

CHARACTER REFERENCE (CO-WORKERS)

EMPLOYMENT CO-WORKER (S)

POLLY PERRY STORES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 DocId:34529195 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN
PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED

18 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019
093 36.4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(LISTED EMPLOYMENT SUPERVISOR) On 14 October 1968, Bob Wang, Warehouse Manager, Polly Perry Stores, 33-37 East 17th Street, New York, New York 10003, who resides at 3028 West 29th Street, Brooklyn, New York 11224, was interviewed at his place of employment concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who was SUBJECT'S immediate supervisor from September 1964 to February 1965 stated substantially as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT in September 1964 when MARTI was hired as a shipping clerk by Polly Perry Stores and went to work under Source's Immediate supervision. Source had only business contact with SUBJECT during the period of association, and had not seen MARTI since SUBJECT resigned HIS employment at Polly Perry in February 1965.

Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S personal background, education, residence or home life, except that SUBJECT was believed to be single and was attending school at night, further details unknown. Source was not certain but he seemed to recall SUBJECT once mentioning that HIS father, not further identified, operated a small grocery store. Source believed that SUBJECT'S employment at Polly Perry Stores was HIS first job, and HE left there to seek better employment but Source had no knowledge of where SUBJECT went to work.

MARTI was an excellent employee and HE got along well with HIS co-workers at Polly Perry. HE is highly intelligence and appears to have considerable leadership ability. Source knew nothing adverse concerning SUBJECT'S moral character, integrity, discretion, honesty, maturity, and financial responsibility. HE appeared to be emotionally stable, and manifested no undesirable personal habits whatever. SUBJECT was never heard to express any radical political views, and although Source did not know what HIS specific political views were, Wang had no reason to doubt or question SUBJECT'S loyalty to the United States. Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S organizational affiliations, foreign travels, business interest or relatives residing abroad. Source would gladly re-employ SUBJECT if the occasion arose. Source suggested that Allen Lee and Cora McLendon, former co-workers of SUBJECT as persons who would be knowledgeable of HIM.

Wang recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

5. RED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

Robert C. Sheaffer

FORM
DA 341
REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88613 Docld:34529195 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   MARTI, Manuel NMN
   PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
   DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   18 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8240-6019
   093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(LISTED EMPLOYMENT CO-WORKER) On 14 October 1968, Allan Lee,
Assistant Buyer, Polly Perry Stores, 33-37 17th Street, New York, New
York 10003, who resides at 3 West 123rd Street, New York, New York 10027,
was interviewed at his place of employment concerning Manuel MARTI. Source
who was a co-worker of SUBJECT from September 1964 to February 1965 stated
substantially as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT in September 1964 when MARTI was hired
as a chipping clerk by Polly Perry Stores, and he had daily business contact
with SUBJECT until MARTI left Polly Perry in February 1965 in order to
seek better paying employment. Source's contact with SUBJECT was limited
to matters concerning the work at their place of employment, and Source
had not seen SUBJECT since February 1965 when HE left Polly Perry.

Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S personal background, parents,
siblings, education or residence. MARTI was attending school at night, further
details unknown, and usually brought HIS books to the job so that HE could
study during spare moments. HE appeared to be of Latin decent but spoke
English fluently and without any accent.

SUBJECT was a quiet, well mannered, intelligent and cooperative
employee. HE was always punctual in HIS attendance and appeared to get
along well with HIS associates at work. HE seemed to be a very ambitious
young man, and Source knew nothing adverse concerning SUBJECT'S moral
character, integrity, discretion, honesty, or social habits. HE was a
very competent employee, and demonstrated no signs of immaturity or
emotional instability. SUBJECT was never heard to express any radical
political views, and Source presumes that HE is loyal to the United States.
Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S organizational affiliations, home
life, foreign travels, business interests or relatives residing abroad.
Source was unable to suggest anyone who may have knowledge of SUBJECT.

Lee recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a
position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
   Robert C. Shaeffer.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)
amr

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   MARTI, Manuel NMN
   PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
   DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico
2. DATE SUBMITTED
   18 November 1968
3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8240-6019
   093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(LISTED EMPLOYMENT CO-WORKER) On 14 October 1968, Cora
McLendon, Clerk, Polly Perry Stores, 33-37 East 17th Street, New York,
New York 10003, who resides at 769 Park Place, Brooklyn, New York 11216,
was interviewed at her place of employment concerning Manuel MARTI.
Source who was associated with SUBJECT at Polly Perry Stores from
September 1964 to February 1965 stated substantially as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT in September 1964 when HE was hired
as a shipping clerk at Polly Perry Stores and was associated with HIM as
a co-worker at that firm until February 1965 when HE left the firm. Source's
contact with SUBJECT was limited to an occasional greeting at their place
of employment and daily observance of HIM on the job. Source had not seen
SUBJECT since HE left Polly Perry in February 1965.

Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S personal background, education,
residence, relatives, or other employment.

SUBJECT was a very quiet, respectable looking young man and HIS
conduct on the job was above reproach. HE seemed to get along well with
HIS co-workers and performed HIS assigned duties in a very satisfactory
manner. Source knew nothing adverse concerning SUBJECT'S character,
integrity, discretion, political sympathies, or financial responsibility.
HE had no known difficulty with law enforcement agencies. SUBJECT was
never known to make any radical political statements and Source had no
reason to doubt or question HIS loyalty to the United States. Source had
no knowledge of HIS organizational affiliations, foreign travels, business
interest or relatives residing abroad. Source was unable to suggest anyone
who may have knowledge of SUBJECT. McLendon declined to make any re-
commendation concerning SUBJECT'S suitability for assignment to a position
of trust and responsibility with the United States Government because of
insufficient knowledge.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Group (I-SIB)
   SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
   Robert C. Sheagger

FORM
DA 341
REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.
1 APR 52
NW 88613 Docld:34529195 Page 4


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)