Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 03/07/96
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10007-10425
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: X1332650W - PAGES 5.03-507

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : 108TH MI GROUP
TO :
TITLE: EXHIBIT
DATE: 02/25/70
PAGES: 5
SUBJECTS: NAGELL, RICHARD C.

TRINKALA, VICTOR L..

SWORN STATEMENT

TAPE RECORDING OF INTERVIEW

CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR

DISCHARGE FROM ARMY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/09/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld: 34529656 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# UNITED STATES ARMY INTELLIGENCE COMMAND

![army intelligence command logo]

EXHIBIT

COVER SHEET

SUBJECT:

TRINKALA, Victor Lee
PVT - 186 42 1155

FILE NUMBER:

9321 - 60062

PREPARING UNIT:

108th MI Group (I-SIB)

AGENT REPORT DATED:

25 February 1970

DESCRIPTION:

SUBJECT'S Sworn Statement (DA Form 2823),
dated 19 February 1970.

![page number]

NW 88613 DocId:34529656 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# WITNESS STATEMENT
(AR 195-10 TB PMG 3)

PLACE 108th MI Group, Region I, Room 1332,
26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10007

DATE
19 Feb 70

TIME 1500 Hrs FILE NUMBER
1600 Hrs 9321 6006

LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MIDDLE NAME
TRINKALA, Victor Lee

SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NO.
186 42 1155

GRADE
PVT

ORGANIZATION OR ADDRESS
127 West 43d Street, Room 301; Manhattan, New York 10036

SWORN STATEMENT

**Victor Lee Trinkala** WANT TO MAKE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT UNDER OATH:

Q. Mr. Trinkala, before we proceed, it is my desire to acquaint you with the purpose of this interview. The United States Department of Army must be assured of the character, suitability, and unswerving loyalty to the United States of persons who are in the United States Army and its Reserve component. In this regard, you have been asked to voluntarily undergo an interview under oath concerning your background since you were discharged from active duty and placed in the inactive reserves. This interview will provide a dual opportunity to you and the Depart-ment of Army to determine your status up to the present. Do you understand what I have just said to you?

A. Yes.

Q. Do you have any objection to being interviewed under oath?

A. No.

Q. Please stand and raise your right hand. Do you affirm to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth?

A. Yes, I so affirm.

Q. Do you have any objection to having this interview tape recorded for administra-tive purposes?.

A. No, none whatsoever.

Q. Please state your name, address of residence, occupation, name and address of employer, and Social Security Account Number.

A. My name is Victor Lee Trinkala and I reside at the Hotel Woodstock, Room 301, 127 West 43d Street, Manhattan, New York. 'I am currently unemployed. My Social Security Account Number is 186 42 1155.

Q. What addresses have you resided at since your discharge?

A. I lived at the Hotel Strand, 206 West 43d Street, Manhattan, New York for approximately two or three weeks after my discharge from the Army. I then moved to my current address and have resided there ever since.

Q. What employment have you had since your discharge?

A. None. I collect a weekly unemployment check from New York State which pays for my bills.

Q. Did you come directly to New York City after your discharge?

A. Yes.

Q. Mr Trinkala, have you ever had contact with any embassies, legations, consulates, or representatives of any foreign country?

A. No, none that I know of.

Q. Have you or any member of your family ever been contacted by a representative of a foreign intelligence service either here or abroad?

A. No, none that I know of.

Q. Have you or any member of your family ever been contacted by anyone with a more than casual interest in your military assignments, career, or duties?

EXHIBIT

INITIALS OF PERSON MAKING STATEMENT

PAGE 1 OF PAGES

ADDITIONAL PAGES MUST CONTAIN THE HEADING "STATEMENT OF TAKEN AT DATED CONTINUED."
THE BOTTOM OF EACH ADDITIONAL PAGE MUST BEAR THE INITIALS OF THE PERSON MAKING THE STATEMENT AND
BE INITIALED AS "PAGE_ OF PAGES." WHEN ADDITIONAL PAGES ARE UTILIZED, THE BACK OF PAGE 1 WILL
BE LINED OUT, AND THE STATEMENT WILL BE CONCLUDED ON THE REVERSE SIDE OF ANOTHER COPY OF THIS FORM

NW 88613 DocId:34529656 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Statement of TRINKALA, Victor Lee, taken at 108th MI Group, Region I, 26 Federal
Plaza, Room 1332, New York, New York 10007, dated 19 February 1970, continued:

Q. No, no one that I can recall.

Q. If you were contacted by someone with a more than casual interest in your military assignments, career, or duties, what would you do?

A. I would report them to the FBI, CIA, or the CID.

Q. Do you, Mr. Trinkala, still consider yourself to be a Conscientious Objector?

A. Yes.

Q. You do consider yourself to be a Conscientious Objector?

A. I consider myself to be a Conscientious Objector to a certain point.

Q. Explain, if you will, Mr. Trinkala.

A. I do not believe in killing someone for no reason. I just can not bring myself to kill a man because someone tells me to.

Q. What are your Conscientious Objector grounds based upon?

A. I have religious and moral objections to killing people.

Q. When were you discharged?

A. I was discharged on 3 December 1969.

Q. What were the reasons given for your discharge?

A. I really cannot recall the reasons for my discharge.

Q. Were you told why you were discharged?

A. There were several reasons involved. A friend of mine helped me to get discharged.

Q. How did he help you obtain a discharge?

A. I do not know how he helped, or if, in fact, he did help me to get discharged.

Q. What is your friend's name?

A. His name is Richard Nagel.

Q. Where does Richard Nagel reside?

A. I do not know where he lives. I have never met him in person and do not know him personally. He is a friend of a friend.

Q. How did you become acquainted with Mr. Nagel.

A. Mr. Nagel is actually the friend of Tony Muneer of whom I have known for three or four years.

Q. Where does Mr. Muneer reside and what is his occupation?

A. Tony Muneer resides at the Hotel Woodstock, 127 West 43d Street, Manhattan, New York. He is employed there as a Desk Clerk.

Q. Have you ever resided in the same residence with Mr. Muneer previous to your discharge?

A. Yes, we both lived in the Hotel Strand, 206 West 43d Street, Manhattan, New York.

Q. What was his occupation at that time?

A. He was working as a Desk Clerk and going to school at IBM.

Q. What was your occupation at that time?

A. I was working at the Clinton Hotel, 19 West 31st Street, Manhattan, New York.

Q. So, Mr. Muneer told you he would help you get out of the Army?

A. Yes, he said he would speak to a friend, Richard Nagel, and see what he could do.

Q. Did he ever tell you what he did to help you get out of the Army?

A. No.

Q. Have you ever associated with any dissident, anti-Army, or anti-war groups?

A. No.

Q. Have you ever been contacted by any individual who is a representative of any dissident, anti-Army, or anti-war groups?

A. I do not know.

Q. Has any person ever asked you to attend meetings of such groups?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# Statement of TRINKALA, Victor Lee

taken at 108th MI Group, Region I, 26 Federal Plaza, Room 1332, New York, New York 10007, dated 19 February 1970, continued:

Q. Have you ever attended any meetings of any dissident, anti-Army, anti-war groups?

A. No, never.

Q. Where were you stationed while in the Army?

A. I was stationed at Fort Gordon, Georgia for approximately nine weeks during which time I received Basic Training. I then went to Fort Polk, Louisianna, for AIT training in the MOS 11B10. I stayed at Fort Polk for approximately 10 weeks. I was then sent to Oakland Army Terminal with orders for Viet Nam. I was discharged at Oakland Army Terminal on 3 December 1969.

Q. Do you not remember the reasons for your discharge?

A. No, I do not remember the specific reasons.

Q. How much time had you spent in the Army?

A. I had spent five months and 22 days.

Q. Did you not think it rather odd that you should be granted a discharge after only five months and 22 days?

A. Yes, I thought it was odd but I did not know what was happening.

Q. Did you receive any counseling while in the Army from Army personnel?

A. No, but the Personnel Officer at Oakland Army Terminal asked me who Richard Nagel was.

Q. Why did he ask you the identity of Richard Nagel and what was his name and rank?

A. I do not know why he asked me about Richard Nagel. He was a Warrant Officer but I do not remember his name or rank.

Q. What did you tell him about Mr. Nagel?

A. I told him only that he was a personal friend of mine.

Q. Had you requested a discharge at any time prior to arriving at Oakland Army Terminal?

A. I do not recall.

Q. You had never requested a discharge?

A. I was trying to get my combat status changed to non-combat status. I never initiated any formal procedures to obtain a discharge.

Q. Did you ever tell any one that you were a Conscientious Objector?

A. Yes, I told the adjutant at Oakland Army Terminal but he tore up my request and told me to get the hell out.

Q. Have you his name and rank?

A. No, I do not recall his name or rank.

Q. Did Richard Nagel ever mention to you how he got you out of the Army?

A. No, as I mentioned before I have never seen him before or since. He called me long distance from New York City while I was at Oakland Army Terminal and that was the first and last I heard from him.

Q. Has Tony Muneer heard from him or does he know of his whereabouts?

A. No, Tony has not heard from him since December 1969 and does not know of Richard Nagel's whereabouts.

Q. Have you ever been arrested?

A. Yes.

Q. How many times?

A. About three or four times.

Q. Have you ever been arrested since being inducted into the Army?

A. No, and I listed all my arrests on the forms I had to fill out before going into the Army and at Basic Training.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

STATEMENT (Continued)

Q. Do you have friends who are members of dissident, anti-Army, or anti-war groups or organizations?

A. No, but most of my friends do not like the Army. I do not know their reasons.

Q. To what country do you owe your allegiance?

A. The United States.

Q. Do you support the Constitution of the United States and are you willing to defend the United States against any and all of her enemies without exception?

A. I support the Constitution and am willing to fight any enemies who invade the United States but I am not willing to fight in Viet Nam because I believe the war is immoral.

Q. If called upon to fight in Viet Nam would you go?

A. I would try to obtain Conscientious Objector status. If that did not work I do not know what I would do.

Q. Would you be willing to go on Active Duty if called upon?

A. I would not be willing to be called to Active Duty and I do not know if I would go if called.

Q. Why are you opposed to killing?

A. I was brought up to be opposed to killing. They wanted to teach me in four months to kill somebody and you can not teach in four months something which is opposed to what you have been taught for many years.

Q. Are these attitudes due to religious beliefs?

A. Yes, I am Catholic and do not believe in killing.

Q. If you had to kill someone in self-defense what would you do?

A. I would fight back but this is different than being placed in Viet Nam where I would probably have to kill.

Q. If you were in Viet Nam and were under fire would you kill the enemy?

A. Yes, I would. Any human being would fight back.

Q. If a foreign power attacked the United States would have any objection to killing the aggressor?

A. No, not really.

Q. Do you have anything further to add?

A. NO. /////////// Nothing Follows! //////////////


Victor Lee Trinkala

AFFIDAVIT

HAVE READ OR HAVE HAD READ TO ME THIS STATE-
MENT WHICH BEGINS ON PAGE 1 AND ENDS ON PAGE 4 I FULLY UNDERSTAND THE CONTENTS OF THE ENTIRE STATEMENT MADE BY ME. THE STATEMENT IS TRUE. I HAVE INITIALED ALL CORRECTIONS AND HAVE INITIALED THE BOTTOM OF EACH PAGE CONTAINING THE STATEMENT. I HAVE MADE THIS STATEMENT FREELY WITHOUT HOPE OF BENEFIT OR REWARD, WITHOUT THREAT OF PUNISHMENT, AND WITHOUT COERCION, UNLAWFUL INFLUENCE, OR UNLAWFUL INDUCEMENT.

![Signature of Person Making Statement]

Subscribed and sworn to before me, a person authorized by law to administer oaths, this 20th day of February, 1970, at 127 West 43d Street, Manhattan, NY 10036

![Signature of Person Administering Oath]

TIMOTHY T. MC PHERSON, Special Agent.
(Typed Name of Person Administering Oath)
AR 136 (b), UCMJ
(Authority To Administer Oaths).

PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)