Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10390
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 51

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/19/68
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE

REYES, JUANITA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34529206 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REP
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

amr

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, MANUEL NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED

19 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(LISTED CHARACTER REFERENCE) On 4 November 1968, an attempt was made to contact Juanita Reyes, 940 East 173rd Street, Bronx, New York, who might be identifiable with Juanita Reyes, 1435 Ogden Avenue, New York, New York, listed character reference of Manual MARTI, with negative results. There was no one available at Reyes' residence. A courtesy letter was left at the residence with the request that Reyes contact the undersigned for an appointment.

AGENT'S NOTES: An earlier attempt to contact Reyes at the address furnished on SUBJECT'S SPH, dated 1 August 1968, revealed that no one by that name was known at the address.

(LISTED CHARACTER REFERENCE) On 10 November 1968, an attempt was made to contact Juanita Reyes, 940 East 173rd Street, Bronx, New York, who might be identifiable with Juanita Reyes, 1435 Ogden Avenue, New York, New York, listed character reference of Manuel MARTI, and who had failed to respond to a courtesy letter left at her residence on 4 November 1968, with the following results:

Alberto Reyes, a relative of Juanita Reyes, was contacted and stated that he had never heard of SUBJECT, and that Juanita Reyes had re- turned to Puerto Rico over one year ago. He further stated that she had never resided at 1435 Ogden Avenue, New York, New York.

51

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![signature of Alphonso E. Marshall]

DA 341

REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88613 Docld:34529206 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)