Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 12/10/97
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10006-10315
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: AC640653W-PAGE 51

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED]
TO :
TITLE : AGENT REPORT
DATE : 02/04/72
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS : KAMINSKI, HANS D

REPORT OF FINDINGS

[ RESTRICTED]

COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE INTEREST

EXCHANGE OF WARHEADS AT C TEAM

REMARKS

AGENT'S NOTES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94

NW 88613 Docld:34530609 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   4 February 1972

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

On 1 February 1972, Peter D. Herpst, PFC, 475-54-6972, Clerk, C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln (LC8424), Federal Republic of Germany, APO New York 09078, was interviewed at his place of duty concerning an incident of possible Counter-Intelligence interest, and stated substantially as follows:

About two or three weeks ago, just before a scheduled exchange of warheads at C Team, Source was approached in a Datteln bar, the Stadtschaenke, by a man who identified himself as John Dee Jay. John was the Disc Jockey at another bar in Datteln, the Lord Nelson. Source thought that Dee Jay was only a nickname and not John's real name. John asked Source and other Americans in the bar if they knew where some of the former members of the unit are pre-sently stationed. Source could recall only one name John had asked about, Cristobal Pimentel-Davilla. John told Source "If you see Pimentel, tell him I have the package for him." Source knew that John had called the unit that night asking for Pimentel-Davilla. John at one time asked Source to tell him who the Security Sergeant of the unit was, but Source refused to answer the question. Source descriped John as follows: Height: Six feet to six feet one inch tall; Weight: 200-210 pounds; Age: 22-24 years old; Build: Stocky; Hair: Dark; Dress: Wore furry coat and shoes, possibly camel hair. Source had not met John before and has not seen him since and gave negative responses to all questions posed by him.

REMARKS: Source felt that the package John mentioned that he had for Pimentel-Davilla was probably drugs, either hashish or marijuana. Source knew that Pimentel-Davilla used both drugs and may have been selling them to other members of the unit.

AGENT'S NOTES: Full identification of Pimentel-Davilla was as follows: Pimentel-Davilla, Cristobal, SP6, 582-58-9662, departed C Team on 20 January 1972 on a permanent change of station to Fort Eustis, Virginia.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   HEINZ E. ICKERT, 66th MI Group

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
   Kunz E. Pekert

NW 88613 Docld:34530609 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)