Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

Date: 12/10/97
Page : 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10006-10316
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC640653W-PAGE 52

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : AGENT REPORT
DATE : 02/04/72
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : KAMINSKI, HANS D

REPORT OF FINDINGS

[ RESTRICTED ]

COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE INTEREST

THE DORTMUND POLICE

REMARKS

AGENT'S NOTES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94

NW 88613 DocId:34530610 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

2. DATE SUBMITTED

4 February 1972

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(a) On 1 February 1972, Stephen R. Wilson, SP4, 167-40-2332, Clerk,
C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln (LC8424), Federal Republic of
Germany (FRG), APO New York 09078, was interviewed at his place of duty
concerning an incident of possible Counter-Intelligence interest, and stated
substantially the following:

(b) About two or three weeks ago, Source was approached by a man
who identified himself only as John in the Stadtschaenke Bar, Datteln.
John refused to mention his last name, but Source knew that he had been
the Disc Jockey at the Western, a bar in Datteln, and was now the Disc
Jockey at the Lord Nelson, another bar in Datteln. Source had only a
brief conversation with John, but was asked for the name of the Security
Sergeant at the unit. John then told Source to tell Pimentel that he was
back in town. Source described John as follows:

Height: Six feet to Six feet one inch tall
Weight: 180-190 pounds
Hair: Brown
Dress: Wore furry coat and boots
Distinguishing marks: None

Source had not met John before although he had seen him at the Lord Nelson,
and has not had contact with John since. Source did not answer questions
posed by John that pertained to military affairs.

(c) REMARKS: Source felt the reason John was interested in Pimentel
probably had something to do with drugs. Pimentel was known to smoke hashish
and marijuana. The Dortmund Police, Dortmund (LC9308), FRG, were interested
in Pimentel as a drug pusher. Dortmund Police had been to the unit two or
three times to talk to Pimentel about drugs and had searched his house and
car. Pimentel had his car impounded shortly before he left the unit in
regards to refusing to pay the one thousand German Marks deductible on an
automobile accident he had. The case was still pending. Pimentel was
married and had four children, all residing with him in Datteln, but had
German girlfriends in the area. Source could provide no further information
about Pimentel.

(d) AGENT'S NOTES: Pimentel referred to by Source above was Cristobal
Pimentel-Davilla, SP6, 582-58-9662, formerly assigned to C Team. Pimentel-
Davilla left the unit on 20 January 1972 for assignment at Fort Eustis,
Virginia.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

HEINZ E. ICKERT, 66th MI Group

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

NW 88613 Docld:34530610 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)