Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10398
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 61-63

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/18/68
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

NEIGHBORHOOD CHECK

CHARACTER REFERENCES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 Docld:34529214 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   MARTI, Manuel NMN
   PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
   DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   18 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8240-6019
   093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(NEIGHBORHOOD CHECK) On 24 October 1968, Alexander Castillo,
Student, Bronx High School of Science, Bronx, New York, who resides in
Apartment 5B, 905 East 167th Street, Bronx, New York 10459, was interviewed
in his residence concerning Manuel MARTI, Source who has known SUBJECT
since approximately 1950 stated substantially as follows:

Source met SUBJECT in 1950 when he and his parents moved into
the apartment building at the above address where SUBJECT was then residing
with HIS parents. Source's mother was a close friend of MARTI'S mother,
and Source became quite friendly with SUBJECT and HIS brother, Ivan, and
visited SUBJECT'S apartment on the average of four times weekly until 1965
when the Marti family moved from the neighborhood. Source had seen SUBJECT
on a few occasions since He moved from the neighborhood, the last time
being about three or four months ago.

SUBJECT grew up in the neiborhood of East 167th Street, Bronx,
New York, and came from a very respectable home. In addition to HIS older
brother, Ivan, SUBJECT also has a young sister, Blanca. HE was graduated
from high school in Bronx, New York, further details unknown, and Source
believed that HE was working for an insurance company in New York City,
further details unknown. SUBJECT'S mother died in early 1967. Source
believes that SUBJECT is still single, and HE resided at an unknown address
in upper Manhattan after moving from the neighborhood of East 167th Street.

SUBJECT is a very quiet, mannerly, respectable young man of
good moral character and personal behavior. HE was never known to be
adversely involved with law enforcement agencies, nor to engage in any
activities inimical to the best interest of the United States. SUBJECT'S
parents, whom Source knew as Mr. and Mrs. Marti, were very strict and did
not allow SUBJECT to associate with any neighborhood gangs. Most of HIS
spare time was spent at home with HIS studies and with HIS hobbies of stamp
collecting and the rearing of birds and fish. SUBJECT and HIS brother were
influential in starting Source in the hobby of stamp collecting. SUBJECT is
considered to be an honest, trustworthy, discreet and financially responsible
young man. HE is considered to be a loyal United States citizen, and neither
HE nor any other member of HIS family was ever heard to make any statements
against the United States or to express sympathy for the Communist philo-
sophy. SUBJECT had no known organizational affiliations, and HE was not
known to travel outside of the United States. Source was unable to suggest
anyone who may have knowledge of SUBJECT.

Castillo recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a
position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
   Robert C. Alrogger


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

## 1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
MARTI, Emanuel NMN
PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

## 2. DATE SUBMITTED
18 November 1968

## 3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
8240-6019
093 36 4601

## 4. REPORT OF FINDINGS
(NEIGHBORHOOD CHECK) On 24 October 1968, Dominga Ortiz, housewife, who resides at 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, New York 10452, was interviewed at her residence concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has known SUBJECT since 1965 stated substantially as follows:

Source who is the spouse of the building superintendent at the above address met SUBJECT and HIS damily in 1965 when they moved into the apratment building, and her contact with SUBJECT has been limited to an occasional greeting whenever they meet in the neighborhood.

Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S education, employment, previous residence, or personal background.

SUBJECT and HIS family appear to be very fine, respectable people and their conduct in the neighborhood had been above reproach. SUBJECT'S mother, name unknown, died in 1967. SUBJECT and HIS family appear to be very quiet people and keep very much to themselves. Source knew of nothing which would reflect adversely on MARTI'S character, integrity, discretion, maturity, emotional stability, financial responsibility or honesty. Neither HE nor other members of HIS family have been observed to engage in any questionable political activity and Source had no reason to doubt HIS loyalty to the United States. SUBJECT was not known to be adversely involved with law enforcement agencies during the period of association, and Source had no knowledge of any organizational affiliation HE might have. Source was unable to suggest anyone who may have knowledge of SUBJECT.

Based on the excellent conduct of SUBJECT in the neighborhood, Ortiz recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of responsibility with the United States Government.

62

## 5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp, (I-SIB)

## 6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
Robert C. Sprogger

DA 341

NW 88613 Docld:34529214 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   MARTI, Emanuel NMN
   PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
   DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   18 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8250-6019
   093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(NEIGHBORHOOD CHECK) On 24 October 1968, Hortense Mosko,
Housewife, who resides at 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, New York 10452,
was interviewed in her residence concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has
known SUBJECT for approximately three years stated substantially as follows:

Source has been casually acquainted with SUBJECT and HIS family
as neighbor sosince 1965 when MARTI and HIS parents moved into apartment 1E
adjacent to Source; however, her contact with SUBJECT and HIS family had
been limited to a neighborly greeting whenever they met in the hallways of
the building. Source saw SUBJECT frequently prior to HIS induction in the
United States Army.

SUBJECT and HIS family were described as very quiet, friendly
neighbors whose conduct in the neighborhood was above reproach. Source had
no knowledge concerning SUBJECT'S educational background, employment or
previous residence.

MARTI appears to be of excellent character, and Source knew of
nothing whichwould reflect adversely on SUBJECT'S character, integrity,
discretion, honesty, or financial responsibility. HE was not known to have
any difficulty with law enforcement agencies... SUBJECT'S mother, given
name unknown, died almost two years ago. The members of SUBJECT'S family
keep very much to themselves and do not associate with any of the other
neighbors in the building. Neither SUBJECT or the other members of HIS
family were known to engage in any questionable political or other activity
in the neighborhood, and Source had no reason to doubt or question SUBJECT'S
loyalty to the United States. Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S organi-
zational affiliations or foreign travels. Source was unable to suggest any-
one who may have knowledge of SUBJECT.

Mosko recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position
of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.



ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

Robert C. Steagger

FORM
DA 341
REPLACES WD AGO FORM 341, 1 JUN 47, WHICH MAY BE USED.

NW 88613 Docld:34529214 Page 4


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)