Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

Date: 01/14/98
Page: 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10369
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGE 21

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO : [ RESTRICTED ]
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 09/25/68
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

BIRTH RECORDS

[ RESTRICTED ]

SOTOMAYOR-BADILLO, MANUEL ADRIAN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : EXHIBIT INDEXED SEPARATELY

NW 88613 Docld:34529185 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   MARTI, Manuel (NMN)
   PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
   DPOB: 17 May 46, San Juan PR

ctr
2. DATE SUBMITTED
25 September 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8240-6019
   093-36-4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(BIRTH) On 20 September 1968, a check of the birth records concerning Manuel MARTI was conducted at the Bureau of Demographic Registry, Department of Health, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Santurce, Puerto Rico. Mrs. Candita Hernandez de Buxo, Records Supervisor, furnished Certificate 36046, Book 73, for the year 1946, which revealed the following pertinent information:

Name: Manuel Adrian MARTI-BADILLO
Date of Birth: 17 May 1946
Place of Birth: San Juan, Puerto Rico
Father's Name: Manuel Marti
Father's Place of Birth: Utuado, Puerto Rico
Mother's Name: Reyes Badillo
Mother's Place of Birth: Aguadilla, Puerto Rico
Registered By: Manuel Marti
Date Registered: 27 May 1946
Remarks: SUBJECT was born, and was originally registered, as Manuel Adrian SOTOMAYOR-BADILLO. HIS father was originally recorded as Adrian Sotomayor. However, on 5 March 1963, SUBJECT'S father changed his name to Manuel Marti under correction number 249, and changed his SON'S surname on the same date.

AGENT'S NOTES: According to Spanish tradition, a person's surname is sometimes compounded by using the father's surname followed by the mother's maiden name in hyphenated form. However, many persons now omit the mother's name in common usage.

Attention is invited to Agent Report, Birth-Father, dated 24 September 1968, reflecting the results of an examination of the Court Order, which effected correction number 249, dated 5 March 1963 (EXHIBIT III-).

![illegible text]

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   PRESCOTT S. WILLIAMS, 771st MI Det

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![signature]

DA 341

NW 88613 Docld:34529185 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)