# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 01/13/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10135
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 14-14A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : USAPSG
TO : DCS-OPS USAINTC
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 05/05/67
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : FROMER, DAVID REED

REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : RECORD REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94.

> Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
> 44 USC 2107 Note Case#:NW 88613 Date: 03-18-2025

NW 88613 Docld:34528544 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# REQUEST FOR AND RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

TO: (Control Office)
DCS-OPS
(AR 381-130)
THRU:
USAINTC
ATTN: OPS III (Mr. Burwasser)
Fort Holabird, Md.

(Enter name and address of the ACTION AGENCY to which results are to be sent, if known by requester)

U.S. Army Fersonnel Security Group
Fort Holabird, Maryland 21219
ATIN: Adjudications Division

DATE
5 May 1967

FROM: (Requesting Agency)
USAPSG

CONTROL OFFICE USE ONLY

REQUIREMENT
REQUEST NO.

DOSSIER NO.
OPENING DATE

REMARKS

SECTION I - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

1. SUBJECT (Last name in capitals, first and middle names)

FROMER, David Reed

4. DATE OF BIRTH
   (Day, Month, Year)

21 July 1942

7. REQUESTED ACTION

8. TYPE OF INVESTIGATION:

NAC

NACI

2. ALIAS(ES), MAIDEN NAME

None

5. PLACE OF BIRTH (City,. State and country)

Chicago, Illinois

INVESTIGATION

VALIDATION

BI

OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

3. SERVICE/SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

564-58-8137

6. GRADE AND POSITION

Registrant

9. a. FOR CLEARANCE AND/OR ACCESS TO:

TOP SECRET

SECRET

RECORDS CHECK

10. TO DETERMINE SUITABILITY FOR:

11. JUSTIFICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

b.

FOR LIMITED ACCESS AUTHORIZATION

c.

INTERIM CLEARANCE DESIRED

d. OTHER (Explain in Item 15)

REVEALED:

12. REVIEW OF FILES REQUIRED BY PARAGRAPH AR 604-5, COMPLETED ON

NO UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION

UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION DETERMINED NOT TO BE A BAR TO ACTION CONTEMPLATED

INFORMATION SUMMARIZED IN ITEM 15

13. LATEST INVESTIGATION/CLEARANCE (Type, when, by whom)

14. NO BREAK IN FEDERAL SERVICE EXCEEDING SIX MONTHS SINCE

15. REMARKS (If unfavorable information entered, transmit in sealed envelope thru intelligence channels.).

Request that Headquarters and Local FBI (S) file checks be conducted on SUBJECT's parents.

"Request this investigation be expedited as determination under AR 604-10 is being delayed at Department of the Army pending results".

REGRASIFIED
ON 2 Sepqy
BY CUR : Γ01/ΡΟ
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R

INCLS
Dossier 564588137
re SUBJECT

TYPED NAME AND TITLE
J B FINNEGAN
COL AIS

SIGNATURE
14

SECTION II CONTROL OFFICE TO REQUESTER

DATE

16. NEW FINGERPRINT CARD REQUIRED

ITEMS ON SPH (PSQ) REQUIRE CORRECTION AND/OR COMPLETION.

INTERIM REPORT FORWARDED.. REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND RETURN OF INCLOSURES UPON COMPLETION.

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

INCLS

FORM
DA 2784
APR 64

IRR COPY

Regraded UNSIGNATURE
when separated from
classified inclosures

NW 88613 Docld:34528544 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

## SECTION III - REQUESTER TO CONTROL OFFICE

17. REPORT OF ACTION

INFORMATION NOTED

SUBJECT REASSIGNED TO NON-SENSITIVE DUTIES, INVESTIGATION MAY BE CANCELED.

INFORMATION CONSIDERED NO BAR TO CLEARANCE. REQUEST COMPLETION OF INVESTIGATION.

18. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED

TO HEADQUARTERS PER DATED

19. REMARKS (If returning corrected forms, state here)

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE

## SECTION IV - CONTROL OFFICE TO ACTION AGENCY

20. RESULTS OF PERSONNEL SECURITY ACTION

NO RECORD

FAVORABLE

MINOR'UNFAVORABLE INFORMATION RECORDED IN ITEM 21

PRIOR INVESTIGATION INSUFFICIENT FOR ACTION CONTEMPLATED

FORWARDED FOR SECURITY DETER-MINATION BY CLEARING AUTHORITY

IF NEEDED, INITIATE REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION.

TYPE OF INVESTIGATION COMPLETED BY DATE DOSSIER NUMBER

NAC NACI BI OTHER

21. REMARKS

a. THIS FORM, TOGETHER WITH ANY INCLOSURES, REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN AND USACRF COPY OF DA FORM 873 (if appropriate) WILL BE RETURNED TO THE CONTROL OFFICE WITHIN DAYS AFTER RECEIPT.

b. IN THE EVENT SUBJECT HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM YOUR COMMAND, THIS FORM AND INCLOSURES WILL BE RETURNED IMMEDIATELY WITH ITEM 23 COMPLETED.

c. ATTENTION IS INVITED TO: PARAGRAPHS AR 604-5; PARAGRAPH AR 604-11; PARAGRAPH AR 640-98; AND PARAGRAPH AR 381-130, AS APPLICABLE.

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE

## SECTION V - ACTION AGENCY TO CONTROL OFFICE

22. REPORT OF ACTION

FAVORABLE DETERMINATION, USACRF COPY DA FORM 873 ATTACHED

UNFAVORABLE DETERMINATION, RECOMMENDED ACTION IN ITEM 24

REQUEST ADDITIONAL INVESTIGATION AS INDICATED IN ITEM 24

23. SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED

TO HEADQUARTERS PER DATED:

24. REMARKS

REGRADED/CLASSIFIED
ON 2 Sep 94
BY CUR F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R

INCLS TYPED NAME AND TITLE SIGNATURE

NW 88613 DocId:34528544 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)