Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
# IDENTIFICATION FORM

# AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 01/14/98
Page: 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10395
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 56-57

# DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/20/68
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE (CO-WORKER)

MUTUAL INSURANCE ADVISORY ASSOCIATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 DocId:34529211 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

amr

2. DATE SUBMITTED

20 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(DEVELOPED CHARACTER REFERENCE) On 13 November 1968, Nick Traficenti, Tabulating Machine Operator, Mutual Insurance Advisory Association (MIAA), 733 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10017, who resides at 565 East 181st Street, Bronx, New York 10457, was interviewed at his place of employment concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has known SUBJECT since March 1967 stated substantially as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT in March 1967 when he was employed by MIAA and was assigned to the same section as SUBJECT in the Data Control Section. Source was introduced to the personnel within the section and coached in his duties by SUBJECT, and as a result he became quite friendly with MARTI. Source had daily contact with SUBJECT at work, but they never had occasion to associate outside of their working environment. Source last saw SUBJECT in May 1968 when HE left MIAA to enter active military service.

Although SUBJECT is of Puerto Rican decent, Source was not aware of HIS birthplace. HE was single and lived with HIS father, Manuel Marti, in Bronx, New York, further details unknown. HIS mother, name unknown, had died of cancer shortly before HE and Source met. SUBJECT was a graduate of Evander Charles High School, Bronx, New York, and Source believed that HE was attending college at night during HIS employment at MIAA. SUBJECT has a younger sister and an elder brother, names unknown. HIS brother was in the United States military service during SUBJECT'S employment at MIAA, and since SUBJECT was reportedly the main support of HIS family HE was given a deferment from military service until HIS brother was released. Source had no further knowledge of SUBJECT'S personal background.

MARTI is a highly intelligent, conscientious and dependable individual. HE was assigned as a Tabulating Machine Operator at MIAA and seemed to have a keen interest in HIS work and was always seeking ways to improve HIMSELF on the job. Source believed that MIAA was HIS first employ- ment. SUBJECT was very highly regarded by all of HIS associates at MIAA, and HE was greatly missed on the job. HE is friendly, honest, trustworthy, mature, emotionally stable and of good moral character. SUBJECT was not known to have any difficulty with creditors or law enforcement agencies, and HE demonstrated no habits of an anti-social nature during the period of association. Source had no knowledge of SUBJECT'S organizational affilia- tions or foreign travels. SUBJECT never engaged in political discussions, and HE never made any radical statements concerning the United States govern- ment. Source considers MARTI to be a loyal United States citizen who is dedicated to the preservation of our democratic form of government. He knew of no one other than co-workers who are knowledgeable of SUBJECT.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT 56 6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Group() (I-SIB

NW 88613 Docld:34529211 Page 2
Continued


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

# 1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN
PVT E-1, US 52 737 780
DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

# 2. DATE SUBMITTED

20 November 1968

# 3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019
093 36 4601

# 4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

Traficenti recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.


# 5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Gp (I-SIB)

# 6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![signature of ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL]

NW 88613 DocId:34529211 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)