Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 12/10/97
Page : 1

AGENCY: CSF/INSCOM
RECORD NUMBER: 194-10006-10314
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : AC640653W-PAGE 50

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : AGENT REPORT
DATE : 02/05/72
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS: KAMINSKI, HANS D

REPORT OF FINDINGS

PERSONNEL RECORDS

MYERS, CLYDE E

DRUG USAGE

DORKA, EVA-MARIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 2 SEP 94

NW 88613 Docld:34530608 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
For use of this form, see FM 30-17(C); AR 381-130; the proponent agency is the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence.

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   5 February 1972

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(u)
(C) On 1 February 1972, the personnel records of C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, Datteln, (LC8424), Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), APO New York 09078, were checked with the aid of FNU Kulesza, ILT, 286-48-0611, Team Commander, C Team, 66th USA Artillery Detachment, regarding the following persons and revealed the following information:

(u)
(C) Clyde E. Myers, PFC, 266-96-0932, arrived C Team 11 December 1968, departed unit on 8 November 1971 for assignment with 51st Infantry, Cralsheim (NV7843), FRG. Disqualified from nuclear weapons as part of 611-5 program because of use of drugs. Myers was engaged to Eva-Maria Dorka, Gelsinkirchen (LC6909), FRG, Bronner Strasse 22. Reference Agent Report dated 5 February 1972, Subject as above, interview of Robert Creed.

(Kulesza was unable to discover anyone by the name of Jackson or Julius, first or last name, that had ever been stationed at C Team. Reference Agent Report dated 5 February 1972, Subject as above, interview of Robert Creed.


5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

HEINZ E. ICKERT, 66th MI Group

FORM
DA 341
1 APR 52

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

Hernia E. Ickert

NW 88613 Docld:34530608 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)