Date : 07/25/96
Page : 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10013-10144
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ZF000003W PAGES 1190-1191

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: USA
FROM : SICRRO CI/SIGSEC SPT BN
TO : HQDA
TITLE : MESSAGE
DATE : 09/11/82
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

WHITE, JOSEPH TIMOTHY

[ RESTRICTED]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/20/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : PAGES 1190-1191 WERE REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 22 SEP 94.

NW 88613 Docld:34531355 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

*DEDICATED TO*
EXCELLENCE IN
*COMMUNICATIONS*

BE ALL YOU CAN BE

OTTCZOVW RUEAUSA4920 2541633
INMEDIATE/PRIORITY
OP 111630Z SEP 82

PENTAGON TELECOMMUNICATIONS CENTER

FM SICRRO CI/SIGSEC SPT BN (FGGM) CDR FT DEVENS MA //IAGPA-A-DE//

TO HQDA WASH DC //DAMI-CI//

INFO CDR USAINSCOM FT MEADE MD //IAOPS-OP//
CDR902D MI GP FT MEADE MD //IAGPA-OP-I//
CDRCI/SIGSEC SPT BN FT MEADE MD //IAGPA-A-OPI//
CDRMID CI/SIGSEC SPT BN FT MONMOUTH NJ //IAGPA-A-MO//

BT

SECTION-01 OF 02
ACTION ADDRESSEE: NITE ACTION REQUIRED
INFO ADDRESSEES: DELIVER DURING FIRST DUTY HOUR

SUBJECT: WHITE, JOSEPH TIMOTHY, PFC, 492-60-2196, DPOB: 5 NOV 61,
ST LOUIS, MO (U)
A. MSG, IAGPA-OP-I, 091240Z SEP 82, SAB.

1. (U) SOURCE HAD NO OBJECTION TO THE RELEASE OF HIS IDENTITY TO SUBJECT.

2. (U) ON 10 SEP 82, JOSEPH C. MERLINO, 027-54-4638, ZLT....USAR, DPOB: 26 APR 62, BOSTON, MA, COMPANY A, 2D-BATTALION, 104TH INFANTRY MASSACHUSETTS ARMY NATIONAL GUARD, WAS INTERVIEWED AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS CAMPUS, AMHERST, MA, CONCERNING SUBJECT. SOURCE PROVIDED SUBSTANTIALLY THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION: (MSG PARA 3 THRU 12

3. (U) MERLINO FIRST-MET WHITE ON 28-AUG-80, WHEN BOTH ARRIVED AT KEMPER MILITARY SCHOOL & COLLEGE (KMSC), BOONVILLE, MISSOURI, AS FRESHMEN (PLEBES), ASSIGNED TO DIFFERENT COMPANIES. MERLINO'S LAST CONTACT WITH WHITE WAS ON ABOUT 26 SEP 81, TWO DAYS BEFORE WHITE DROPPED OUT OF KMSC. THROUGHOUT ACADEMIC YEAR 80-81-AND DURING SEP-81, MERLINO SAM WHITE DAILY, USUALLY AT FORMATIONS, OCCASIONALLY IN CLASS, BUT MADE PERSONAL CONTACT ONLY ON ABOUT FIFTEEN OCCASIONS. THEY ALSO MET BRIEFLY AT THE AIRBORNE SCHOOL, FT BENNING, GEORGIA, IN JULY 1981. THEY WERE WELL ACQUAINTED, BUT WERE NOT CLOSE PERSONAL FRIENDS.

4. (C) MERLINO DID NOT KNOW OF WHITE'S FAMILY BACKGROUND OR FINANCIAL SITUATION, ALTHOUGH WHITE_DID NOT APPEAR. TO HAVE ANY, FINANCIAL PROBLEMS. NOR DID_MERLINO KNOW IF WHITE USED NARCOTICS OR ABUSED ALCOHOL. WHITE WAS PHYSICALLY HEALTHY AND FIT, BUT NOT ATHLETIC. HE DID NOT APPEAR TO HAVE ANY_DEVIANT_SEXUAL TENDENCIES.OR..HANG-UPS, TO INCLUDE HOMOSEXUALITY. WHITE WAS REPUTED TO BE A MORALLY STRAIGHT INDIVIDUAL WHO VALUED HIS OWN_HONESTY AND INTEGRITY. HE WAS EXCEPT-IONALLY BRIGHT, AND CONSISTENTLY EARNED HIGH GRADES IN ACADEMIC SUBJECTS AND MILITARY SCIENCE.

5. (C) WHITE WAS ALSO A VERY SERIOUS, EXTREMELY INTENSE, AND HIGHLY IDEALISTIC PERSON.. HE WAS USUALLY MILD MANNERED, BUT WOULD GET QUITE AGITATED DURING SERIOUS DISCUSSIONS. IN PAPERS HE WROTE AND DURING DISCUSSIONS IN HISTORY CLASS, HE EARNESTLY_DEFENDED_THE MARX-IST PHILOSOPHY OF EQUALITY. IN OTHER DISCUSSIONS HE REVEALED AN ADMIRATION FOR HOW ADOLF HITLER HARNESSED THE ENERGIES AND NATIONAL-ISM OF THE GERMAN PEOPLE. HOWEVER, WHITE DID NOT APPEAR TO BE PRO-NAZI OR ANTI-SEMITIC. IN FACT, HE SEEMED TO BE SYMPATHETIC TO MIN-ORITY GROUPS IN THE US., AND THEIR BID FOR EQUALITY.

6. (C) WHITE NEVER SHOWED_ANY DISLOYALTY, TO THE U.S.. ALTHOUGH DUR-ING CONVERSATIONS HE WOULD CONSTRUCTIVELY CRITICIZE_AND_CRITIQUE BOTH AMERICAN SOCIETY AND THE SOVIET GOVERNMENT HE TALKED SERIOUSLY AS THOUGH HE HAD HIS OWN PROGRAMS FOR IMPROVING THE LOT OF OTHER PEOPLE. WHITE NORMALLY RESPECTED SUPERIORS AND THEIR AUTHORITY, AS LONG AS THEY MADE SENSE TO HIM. BUT, HE WOULD BALK AT OBEYING SOMEONE FOR WHOM HE HAD LOST RESPECT. THIS TENDENCY LED TO AN INCIDENT AT ROTC ADVANCED CAMP AT FORT RILEY, KANSAS, IN THE SUMMER OF 81, WHEN WHITE REFUSED TO OBEY A CADET'S ORDER (NO FURTHER INFORMATION), AND WAS ALMOST BOARDED OUT OF THE CAMP.

7. (C) WHITE'S SERIOUSNESS, INTELLIGENCE, AND INTENSITY SEEMED THREATENING TO SOME CADETS AT KMSC. HE TENDED_TO_REMAIN ALOOF FROM HIS PEERS. ON TOP OF THIS, HIS-POOR SKIN COMPLEXION NERVOUS MANNER ISMS, AND ERRATIC DRESS (ONE DAY NEAT, THE NEXT DAY - SHABBY) MADE WHITE THE BUTT OF DERISION AND PRANKS AT KMSC. HE WAS OSTRA-CIZED_AND UNIVERSALLY DISLIKED. HIS PEER RATING AT ROTC ADVANCED CAMP WAS REPORTED TO BE LOW

8. (C) WHITE TRIED HARD TO SUCCEED IN EVERYTHING HE DID. HOWEVER, HIS SELF-ESTEEM WAS CONSTANTLY BATTERED BY THE ATTITUDES OF HIS PEERS AND A STRING OF DISAPPOINTMENTS. DURING HIS FIRST YEAR AT KMSC HE GOT INTO SEVERAL FIGHTS WITH OTHER CADETS., ALSO, HIS GIRLFRIEND (NFI) BROKE-OFF THEIR RELATIONSHIP, ALLEGEDLY UNDER PRESSURE FROM HER PARENTS. (WHITE PAPERED A MYRIAD OF PICTURES OF HER ON HIS DORMITORY WALL.) WHITE DATED SELDOM, IF AT ALL. ONE OF HIS INSTRUCTORS, A CAPTAIN DAVID, REPORTEDLY GAVE WHITE A ZERO FOR TURNING IN A PAPER LATE, BUT DID NOT PENALIZE OTHERS WHO HAD DONE SO, AS SEVERELY. CPT DAVID WAS THE TYPE OF PERSON WHO EITHER LIKED OR HATED OTHERS, AND IT SEEMED THAT HE DISLIKED WHITE INTENSELY FOR UNKNOWN REASONS.
   BT

![table of OPI, FIW, FIS, ZX, ZC, ZCL, JL, KF, AB]

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON 22 SEP 94
BY CDR USAISCCOM F01/PO
AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R

PAGE 2 OF 2
111630Z SEP 82
SECT 01 OF 02


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

*DEDICATED TO*
*EXCELLENCE IN*
*COMMUNICATIONS*

![confidential banner]

BE ALL YOU CAN BE

OTTCZOVW RUEAUSA4921 2541633
IMMEDIATE
O P 111630Z SEP 82

PENTAGON TELECOMMUNICATIONS CENTER
AND LOCATING SOURCE.
CLAS BY INSCOM PAM 380-6
REVIEW ON 11 SEP 92.

FM SAICRO CI/SIGSEC SPT BN (FGGM) CDR FT DEVENS MA //IAGPA-A-DE//

TO HQDA WASH DC //DAMI-CI//

INFO CDR USAINSCOM FT MEADE MD //IAOPS-OP//
CDR902D MI GP FT MEADE MD //IAGPA-OP-I//
CDRCI/SIGSEC SPT BN FT MEADE MD //IAGPA-A-OPI//
CDRMID CI/SIGSEC SPT BN FT MONMOUTH NJ //IAGPA-A-MO//
BT

0000
FINAL SECTION OF 02

9. (C) AFTER WHITE'S NEAR FAILURE AT ROTC ADVANCED CAMP, HE WAS RE-CYCLED AT AIRBORNE SCHOOL FOR FAILING THE PT TEST. HOWEVER, HE RECOVERED AND COMPLETED THE COURSE. WHEN HE RETURNED TO KMSC IN SEP 81, HE WAS DEEPLY UPSET UPON LEARNING THAT HE WAS ONLY A CADET SERGEANT FIRST CLASS AND NOT AN OFFICER. WHITE WAS IN SOURCE'S COMPANY (SOURCE WAS A CADET MAJOR). ON ONE OCCASION, DURING LEADERSHIP LAB, SOURCE CORRECTED WHITE WHO WAS IMPROPERLY EXECUTING THE HIGH AND LOW CRAWLS. WHITE REACTED INDIGNANTLY AT FIRST, BUT AFTER SOURCE EXPLAINED WHAT HE DID WRONG, WHITE ADJUSTED AND CONTINUED TO PERFORM. ALSO IN SEP 81, ANOTHER CADET (NFI) TOOK ONE OF WHITE'S BOOKS FROM HIS ROOM. VIOLENTLY ANGRY, WHITE DRAPED TOILET PAPER ON THE CADET'S DORMITORY DOOR AND SET IT ON FIRE. SOURCE CAUGHT WHITE IN THE ACT OF SETTING THE BLAZE AND LAUGHING ABOUT IT. MERLINO VERBALLY CENSURED WHITE AND THREATENED TO GET HIM DISMISSED FROM KMSC. SHORTLY THEREAFTER, WHITE ADVISED THAT HE WANTED TO LEAVE SCHOOL. HE WAS COUNSELED BY COLONEL JOHNNY PARKER, SCHOOL COMMANDANT. PARKER ASKED SOURCE FOR HIS RECOMMENDATION. SOURCE SYMPATHIZED WITH WHITE BUT COULD NOT RECOMMEND HIM FOR A COMMISSION IN THE US ARMY BECAUSE OF HIS APPARENT IMMATURITY.

10. (C) AROUND 26 SEP 81, BEFORE WHITE LEFT KMSC, HE TOLD SOURCE HE WAS LEAVING THE SCHOOL. WHITE SAID HE DID NOT WANT TO BE AN OFFICER, BECAUSE HE WAS "FED UP WITH THE BULLSHIT AND THE ASS-KISSING". HE ADDED THAT HE WAS GOING TO ENLIST IN THE ARMY AND BECOME THE BEST DAMN NCO HE COULD BE BY HIS COMMENTS AND HIS TONE OF VOICE DURING THIS AND OTHER CONVERSATIONS, WHITE INDICATED THAT HE WASN'T GETTING WHAT HE DESERVED FROM SOCIETY. SOURCE WISHED HIM LUCK AND NEVER SAW OR HEARD FROM HIM AGAIN.

11. (C) SOURCE WAS-NOT-TOTALLY SURPRISED WHEN HE READ-OF-WHITE'S DEFECTION TO NORTH KOREA. IT SEEMED TO FIT IN WITH HIS PERSONALITY. SOURCE GUESSED THAT WHITE'S ACTION RESULTED FROM THE CULMINATION OF HIS DISAPPOINTMENTS. WHITE PROBABLY BECAME DISILLUSIONED WITH THE ARMY-OR_HIS_UNIT AND HAD PROBABLY_ENTERTAINED THOUGHTS ABOUT DEFECTING FOR SOME TIME. HOWEVER, IT WAS MOST LIKELY ONE PARTICULAR INCIDENT THAT PROMPTED HIM TO TAKE ACTION. WHERE ONCE WHITE WAS-A FAILURE IN US SOCIETY, HE GAINED NOTORIETY AND AN INTERNATIONAL AUDIENCE THROUGH-HIS-DEFECTION. SOURCE BELIVED THAT THE TEXT OF THE REMARKS-AT-TRIBUTED TO WHITE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF NORTH KOREA SOUNDED LIKE WHITE S-WORDS AND MANNER OF SPEECH, _AND_COULD_VERY WELL HAVE BEEN AUTHORED BY WHITE. AT LEAST THEY PARALLELED WHITE'S IDEALISTIC BUT NAIVE SOCIO-POLITICAL VIEWS.

12. (U) OTHER SOURCES FROM KMSC WHO KNEW WHITE BETTER OR WHO COULD CONTRIBUTE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INCLUDED: COL JOHNNY PARKER, (TEL: 816-882-5623), RICHARD J. HATCH, 2LT USAR, A NATIVE OF PENN-SYLVANIA, WHO KNEW WHITE BETTER THAN ANYONE, CAPTAIN MICHAEL R. BASISTA, SGM JAMES MCKANE, AND MSG STEPHEN G. HINK.

13. (U) POC-FOR-THIS-REPORT-IS-S/A-ALFRED-M-MEMOLE FORT DEVENS RESIDENT-OFFICE, AV 256-2001, (ON LEAVE 13 THRU 17 SEP 82).

14. (U) DELAY IN REPORTING AROSE FROM DIFFICULTIES IN IDENTIFYING

ACTION ARMY SECTIONAL(1)
SECTIONAL(1)

(M)
TOTAL COPIES REQUIRED 1

1191

MCN=82254/13955 TOR-82254/1654Z TAD-82254/1854Z CDSN-MAP182

NW 88613RM Docid:34331355 Page 3

![stamp that reads REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 22 SEP 94 BY CDR USAINSCOM F01/PO AUTH Para 1-603 DOD 5200.1R]

PAGE 1 OF 2
111630Z SEP 82
SECT 02 OF 02


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)