Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10376
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PAGES 31-32

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED ]
DATE : 11/21/68
PAGES : 2
SUBJECTS : MARTI, MANUEL

EDUCATION RECORD

EDUCATION INTERVIEW

BRONX COMMUNITY COLLEGE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS :

NW 88613 DocId:34529192 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

amr

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT
   SUBJECT: MARTI, Manuel NMN
   ASN-SEN: US 52 737 780
   DOB/POB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico
   POB:

2. DATE SUBMITTED
   21 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER
   8240-6019
   093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

LISTED EDUCATION RECORD

SCHOOL: Bronx Community College (BCC)

ADDRESS: 120 East 184th Street, Bronx, New York (N.Y.)

PLACE: Mrs. Mildred Kraft, Assistant Registrar

1.  Subject's Name with Aliases: Manuel MARTI

2.  Address : 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, N.Y.

3.  Previous Addresses : None Listed

4.  Date and Place of Birth : Not Listed

5.  Date of Attendance : Summer Session 1967

6.  Courses and/or Major : Not Listed

7.  Instructors : Not Listed

8.  Graduate (Degree) : Non-Matriculant

9.  Grades : Not indicated

10. Record of Transcripts : Not Listed

11. Previous Education : Not Listed

12. Employments : Not Listed

13. Parents or Guardian : Not Listed

14. Remarks : SUBJECT'S records at BCC are incomplete. SUBJECT did not forward customary papers, such as transcripts of previous education, to BCC.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT
   HAROLD LEHRER, 108th MI Group (I-NYFO)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT
   _Rouvet C. Pleaser_

DA 341


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# AGENT REPORT

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

2. DATE SUBMITTED

21 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

093 36 4601

(EDUCATION INTERVIEW) On 27 September 1968, Mrs. Mildred Kraft, assistant registrar, Bronx Community College (BCC), 120 East 184th Street, Bronx, New York, was interviewed in an attempt to locate former instructors of MARTI, who attended BCC during the Summer session of 1967, with results as follows:

Kraft stated that MARTI'S records were incomplete, and that there was no indication as to who HIS instructors might have been. There was no major course of study. Source could suggest no one who might have knowledge of SUBJECT.



5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

HAROLD LEHRER, 108th MI Gp (I-NYFO)

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

Robert C. Plecopper

DA 341

NW 88613 Docld:34529192 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)