# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 01/14/98
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10004-10394
RECORDS SERIES: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PAGE 55

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : [ RESTRICTED]
DATE : 11/20/68
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS: MARTI, MANUEL

CHARACTER REFERENCE (CO-WORKER)

MUTUAL INSURANCE ADVISORY ASSOCIATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/07/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# AGENT REPORT
(AR 381-130; FM 30-17)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

MARTI, Manuel NMN

PVT E-1, US 52 737 780

DPOB: 17 May 1946, San Juan, Puerto Rico

amr

2. DATE SUBMITTED

20 November 1968

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

8240-6019

093 36 4601

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(DEVELOPED CHARACTER REFERENCE) On 13 November 1968, Richard H. Franken, Control Supervisor, Data Control Section, Mutual Insurance Advisory Association, 733 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10017, who resides at 1245 University Avenue, Bronx, New York 10452, was interviewed at his place of employment concerning Manuel MARTI. Source who has known SUBJECT since April 1965 stated substantially as follows:

Source first met SUBJECT in April 1965 when SUBJECT was employed as a utility clerk at MIAA; however, he did not have any close working contact with SUBJECT until approximately one year later when Source was assigned to the Data Control Section where SUBJECT was then working as a Tabulating Machine Operator. Source had daily contact with SUBJECT on the job, and their contact on the outside was limited to a few occasions when both Source and SUBJECT worked late and Source gave SUBJECT a drive to HIS home which was in the same area as Source's. Franken had not seen or heard from SUBJECT since HE left MIAA for active military service in May 1968.

SUBJECT was single and lived with HIS father and brother, names unknown, at 1201 University Avenue, Bronx, New York. HIS mother, name unknown, died during SUBJECT'S employment at MIAA. Source recalled that SUBJECT'S brother was on active military duty and as a result MARTI was given a deferment until HIS brother was released from the military service. SUBJECT was a high school graduate, and had attended college for about eight credit hours at night while employed at MIAA, further details unknown. Source had no further knowledge of HIS personal background.

SUBJECT was an excellent and highly competent and dedicated employee, and HE enjoyed a very good reputation among HIS associates at MIAA. HE is a very intelligent and ambitious young man, and seemed to devote a lot of HIS spare time to studies: HIS main hobby was stamp collecting to which HE also devoted a considerable amount of time. MARTI is honest, trustworthy, mature, emotionally stable, and of high moral character and personal behavior. HE manifested no undesirable personal habits and was not known to be adversely involved with creditors or law enforcement agencies. Source had no knowledge concerning SUBJECT'S organizational affiliations or foreign travels, and he had no reason to doubt or question SUBJECT'S loyalty to the United States since SUBJECT was never heard to voice any criticism whatever of the United States government or of the democratic policies of this country. Source was unable to suggest anyone other than co-workers who would have knowledge of SUBJECT.

Franken highly recommends that MARTI be favorably considered for a position of trust and responsibility with the United States Government.

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

ALPHONSO E. MARSHALL, 108th MI Group (I-SIB)

FORM
DA 1 APR 52 341

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

![signature of Alphonso E. Marshall]

NW 88613 Docld:34529210 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)