Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88613 Date: 03-18-2025

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date : 03/07/96
Page : 1

AGENCY : INSCOM/CSF
RECORD NUMBER : 194-10007-10426
RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : X1332650W - PAGE 508

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA
FROM : [ RESTRICTED ]
TO :
TITLE : AGENT REPORT
DATE : 11/14/69
PAGES : 1
SUBJECTS : NAGELL, RICHARD C.

TRINKALA, VICTOR L.

MILITARY SERVICE

HOSTILE INTELLIGENCE

CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTOR

CANCELLATION OF ORDERS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL
RESTRICTIONS : 3
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/09/95
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : PAGE 508 WAS REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED ON 1 JUNE 1994.

NW 88613 Docld:34529657 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONFIDENTIAL

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

TRINKALA, Victor L.
DPOB: Unk
Pvt US 527 87 228

2. DATE SUBMITTED

14 November 1969

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED
ON JUN 01 1994
BY CDR USAINSCOM FOI/PO
AUTH PARA 1-603 DoD 5200.1-R

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

(MISCELLANEOUS) During my tour of duty, 0800 hours 12 November 1969 through 0800 hours 13 November 1969, as Duty Agent (DA), 108th Military Intelligence Group, Region I, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, New York (MIGP), the following information was received telephonically from an anonymous male caller, who stated substancially as follows:

At 2105 hours the call was received and the unidentified male stated that an active duty US Army Enlistedman, PVT Victor L. TRINKALA, US 527-87-228, DD Form 2-A, card number, D-323-485, issuing officer, LT James Kraft (Phonetic), Field Artillery, left New York City four or five days prior to 12 November 1969 enroute to Oakland Army Terminal, Oakland, California for shipment to the Republic of Vietnam. TRINKALA completed HIS Basic Combat Training at Fort Jackson, Columbia, South Carolina and HIS Advanced Individual-Training at Fort Polk, Louisiana, HE was in New York City on HIS authorized travel time to Oakland Terminal. While in New York City, unknowingly, HE was contacted by a "Soviet Agent! Since the "Soviet Agent" contacted TRINKALA and found HIM to be a Conscientious Objector (CO), enroute to Vietnam, he, the "Soviet Agent", plans to use this as a propaganda pitch against the US, reason being that since TRINKALA is a known CO by the Army, the Army is still sending HIM to Vietnam, and will make HIM serve in a combat zone, against HIS will. The caller stated that he was a former US Army Captian, Special Agent in the Counterintelligence Corp and that his former credential-badge number was 10-837. He stated that this badge number could be verified through the records at Fort Holabird, Maryland. He called in order for this office to send a "twix" to Oakland Army Terminal and cancel TRINKALA'S orders or to detain HIM in Oakland. The caller's reason for calling and explaining the situation was to prevent the US embarrassment. The caller stated that he planned to travel to Washington, DC in the near future to inform the "proper" authorities of the incident concerning TRINKALA and the "Soviet Agent". The caller was released from East Germany approximately one year ago but would not discuss this on the telephone because of security reasons, nor would he discuss any other information concerning TRINKALA telephonically. He refused to release bis identity because he was a civilian and did not want to get involved with an Army matter.

AGENT'S NOTES: The caller seemed to be very knowledgeable of the Army and knew many Army terms. He was very relaxed and co-operative when he was asked questions but refused to come to this office to discuss the incident on 12 November1969 nor at a future date. He conversed with the undersigned for approximately thirty minutes and kept putting additional coins in the public pay telephone He had no outstanding speech characteristice end

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

MARIO J. MALTESE 108th MI Gp Ran I

NW 88613 Docld:34529657 Page 2

![signature]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)