197-10002-10190 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date : 05/20/97
Page : 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : USA
RECORD NUMBER : 197-10002-10190
RECORDS SERIES : HEADQUARTERS FILES, PENTAGON TELECOMMUNICATIONS CENTER
AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : CIA TDCS-3/566,305
DATE : 00/00/63
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : WEST GERMANY: SOVIET MILITARY ALERT FOLLOWING KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : /
OPENING CRITERIA : /
COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId:32281398 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# ELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY USSR/EAST GERMANY/EASTERN EUROPE

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/886,305

SUBJECT HIGHLIGHTS OF MILITARY WEEKLY
SUMMARY NO. 48

DATE DISTR.

PRECEDENCE CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT
AS SANITIZED

DATE OF INFO.
20-26 NOVEMBER 1963

REFERENCES

DATE ACQ. GERMANY, MUNICH /29 NOVEMBER 1963/ IN TEXT.
APPRAISAL 3, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED/ FIELD REPORT NO. EGK-27396

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE OFFICIAL WEST GERMAN SERVICE FROM INFORMANTS OF VARYING RELIABILITY.

FOLLOWING ARE HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE GERMAN SERVICE MILITARY
WEEKLY SUMMARY NO 48/63, COVERING THE PERIOD OF 20-26 NOVEMBER 63.

1. DURING THE WEEK UNDER REVIEW, THERE WERE NO INDICATIONS
   OF PREPARATION FOR ATTACK BY SOVIET BLOC FORCES.

2 PART A. GENERAL.

LAST WEEK'S EXERCISE AND TRAINING ACTIVITIES IN THE SOVIET BLOC
ARMED FORCES WERE NORMAL AND WERE THUS IN KEEPING WITH THE
GENERAL PACE OF TRAINING AT THIS TIME OF YEAR.

SOVIET AND SATELLITE FORCES REACTED TO THE ASSASSINATION OF
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, NOV 22ND, WITH PRE-
CAUTIONARY MEASURES OF A GENERAL NATURE WHICH MAY BE

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

DA IN 157472

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

TDCS -3/308,303
PG
PAGE 2

INTERPRETED AS A REACTION TO CORRESPONDING STAND-BY
MEASURES OF THE U.S. FORCES.

IT IS EXPECTED THAT IN THE PRESENT SITUATION SOVIET TACTICS
IN THE FIELD OF MILITARY POLICY WILL BE MARKED BY CAUTION.

3. PART B. ARMED FORCES.

A. USSR/EAST GERMAN.

1/ ON THE NIGHT OF 22/23 NOVEMBER, SPECIAL ALERT
MEASURES WERE ORDERED IN THE ORANIENBURG-GARRISON FOR NVA
UNITS AND POSSIBLY ALSO FOR SOVIET ARMY UNITS_/SEVERAL B/AF-3/.

GERMAN COMMENT- THE MEASURE WAS PRESUMABLY TAKEN IN
CONNECTION WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY. IT
APPARENTLY WAS CONFINED TO THE BERLIN AREA.

B. EAST GERMAN.

1/ SINCE MID-OCTOBER 1963, CONTROL POSTS /SO-CALLED
HINTERLANDPOSTEN/ HAVE BEEN STAGGERED IN DEPTHS OF UP TO
1 KILOMETER FROM THE INTERZONAL BORDER DURING WEEKEND NIGHTS..
/SEVERAL F-3/.

4. PART C. GROUND FORCES.

A. SOVIET.

1/ SUMMAP' GERMAN COMMENT ON TRAINING OBS!.

TRAINING AT LOCAL TRAINING GROUNDS AND NUMEROUS DRIVING
SCHOOLS IS INDICATIVE OF RECRUIT TRAINING. FROM 16 TO 18
NOVEMBER ELEMENTS OF THE FIRST GUARDS TANK ANTY COACHGIEO

Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

EXERCISES, PRESUMBLY AT REGIMENTAL LEVEL. AT IML LETALINGER
HEIDE AND ALTENGRABOW TROOP TRAINING GROUNDS.

SINCE 26 NOVEMBER, THERE HAVE BEEN TENTATIVE INDICATIONS
OF ACTIVITY OUTSIDE GARRISONS OF ELEMENTS OF THE 34TH
ARTILLERY DIV. NO OBSERVATIONS HAVE BEEN MADE AS YET
INDICATIVE OF EXERCISES WITH FULL UNITS PARTICIPATING.

5. PART D. AIR FORCES. NO HIGHLIGHTS PROVIDED.

6. PART E. NAVY.

A. SOVIET.

1/ ON 25 NOVEMBER 1963, ONE F-CLASS SUBMARINE, WITHOUT
PT-NUMBER, PASSED NORTHWARD THROUGH THE GREAT BELT. /B-2/

7. PART F. LOGISTICS, AND PART G. PSYCHOLOGICAL -
   NO HIGHLIGHTS PROVIDED.

FIELD DISTRIBUTION: ARMY, AIR, NAVY, USEUCOM

END OF MESSAGE

ACTION: ACCI, NAVY, AF, USA, CSD
INFO: DCSOP
DA IN 157472


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)