# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: 198-10004-10207
RECORD SERIES : CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY
FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
TO: MR. JOHN H. CRIMMINS
TITLE: INTERDEPARTMENTAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE OF CUBAN AFFAIRS: REPORT ON
THE STATUS OF ACTIONS DESIGNED TO COUNTER SUBVERSION
DATE: 01/10/1964
PAGES: 62
SUBJECTS: COUNTERINSURGENCY
CUBAN SUBVERSION
LATIN AMERICA SECURITY
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1C
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1997
OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 10. Army memo from Joseph Califano to Mr. Crimmins on status of
actions to counter Cuban subversion in Latin America with other related documents.

![JFK Assassination Records Review]

Department of the Army EO 13526

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 1
5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

Lt Col Haig/78029/8 Jan 64/md

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. JOHN H. CRIMMINS
Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
Department of State

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban
Affairs: Report on the Status of Implementation of
Actions Designed to Counter Subversion

Enclosed herewith is the Report on the Status of Implementation
of Actions Designed to Counter Subversion for the period 1 December
1963-1 January 1964. The format of this report adheres to the topic
outline disseminated at the meeting of the Subcommittee on Subversion,
September 13, 1963.

It is requested that this office be provided with 12 copies of the
final report. It is assumed that each of the representatives will have
an opportunity to consider the final report before it is forwarded.

Signed
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel

Enclosure
As Stated

Mr. Califano
Lt Col Haig
ASG

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 2

OSA 353-CUBA

1/10/64

FW 1/30/63

![OSA. ASG. CONTROL NO. 3051-D]

SECRET

FILE

DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS:
DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS
DOD DIR 5200.10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS TAKEN
BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO
COUNTER SUBVERSION FOR THE
PERIOD 1 DEC 63 - 1 JAN 64

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms.

a. General A. P. O'Meara, USA, Commander-in-Chief, US
Southern Command, met with Vice Admiral Ray C. Needham, USN,
Chief of Staff to Commander-in-Chief, Atlantic and members of their
respective staffs during the period 11 to 15 December 1963. Discussions encompassed methods of improving the existing surveillance/
intercept system throughout the Caribbean. Existing US plans were
reviewed, continuance of the ship visit program instituted in Novem-
ber 1963 was agreed upon, and combined exercises to test country
capabilities to intercept simulated intruding ships were planned for
early execution. Discussions by General O'Meara were continued
with the Secretary of the Army and with representatives of the State
Department, CIA and the Joint Staff, Joint Chiefs of Staff.

b. Commander Mine Division 44 with minesweepers USS
STURDY and USS SWERVE completed visits to Central American
ports in Costa Rica, Nicaragua and Guatemala. Deficiencies in the
capabilities of all three countries to counter subversive infiltration
were reported. Additional visits, designed to assist in correcting
deficiencies, are planned. USCINCSO also plans, through Commanders
of US Military Groups, to assist in developing existing capabilities.

c. Based upon information from CAS Panama representative
on 8 November, USCINCSO directed US operations to find a small
boat which reportedly left the Colon Free Zone with a cargo of arms
destined for the vicinity of the Colombian-Venezuelan border. Day-
light visual aerial surveillance flights were instituted immediately,
with radar-equipped aircraft taking over surveillance during hours
of darkness. Colombian and Venezuelan authorities were notified
through US diplomatic channels, but no direct communications
between US surveillance aircraft and Colombian forces in the
vicinity of the probable landing area were established before termi-
nation on 14 November. This effort, though not successful, has
evoked considerable effort by US State Department, Defense Depart-
ment and CIA activities to improve capabilities and procedureв.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

d. Action was commenced in the Colon area to provide means to keep track of ships and boats entering or leaving the Colon Free Zone in order to monitor the movements of those suspected of carrying contraband. Assistance to USCINGSO0 was provided from the continental United States in carrying out surveys as to equipment required on as secretive a basic as possible, and special optical equipment to include probable night television was approved by the Secretary of the Army for expedited delivery to USCINCSO.

e. A joint survey and mobile training team from USCINCSO continued assistance to Venezuelan authorities in improving indigenous capabilities for surveillance and interception of intruders.

f. A US Southern Command Operations Plan 50-63 was developed to provide for three levels of operational assistance to Venezuela in surveillance and intercept operatione. Representatives of the US Strike Command and the Air Defense Command visited USCINCSO to assist in developing detailed supporting plans.

g. Information was obtained by USCINCSO concerning in-country communications capabilities of Colombia and Venezuela to receive and disseminate surveillance information provided by US forces.

5. Strengthening of Counterinsurgency Capabilities.

a. US Army training included the following: 13 students from 6 countries completed CI operations course in the Canal Zone; 8 students from 5 countries completed CI orientation course in the Canal Zone; 24 students from 8 countries completed Military Intelligence course in the Canal Zone; 11 Chilean studente completed special Military Intelligence orientation course; three Canal Zone-based CI Mobile Training Teams (MTT) carried out training programs in Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela; and one Canal Zone-based CI MTT commenced a training program of Panamanian National Guardsmen.

b. US Navy training included the following:

(1) The Small Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT) completed training the third claes of Central American nationals, bringing to 63 the total number of students trained since May 1963.

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

(2) The semiannual maintenance check of two
Panamanian 40 foot Coast Guard Utility Boats (CGUBe) was com-
menced on 16 December by an on-the-job training (OJT) program.
Work should be completed by 10 January 1964.

(3) Work was temporarily suspended on two 40 foot
COUBs in Costa Rica due to the lack of critical spare parts. It is
anticipated work will be completed by 15 January 1964.

c. Increases in the stock levels of the Canal Zone stockpile
of riet control equipment were directed on 20 December 1963. In-
creases will enable USCINCSO to respond to urgent requests from
Latin American governments. Buildup concerned primarily tear
gas grenades, gas masks, carbines and shotgun ammunition.

d. Final arrangements were made with the Bertram Boat
Company of Miami for delivery of 10 outboard-inboard fiber glasa
boats to Cabamis, Venezuela for use in the Lake Maracaibo area.
Boats, spares and an MTT will be delivered to destination by
14 January 1964.

e. Action has been taken to expedite the shipment of radio-
electronic gear to Jamaica for use in the joint surveillance program
designed to combat Castro-inspired insurgency in the Caribbean
area. Equipment should arrive in Jamaica within the next few weeks.

f. A US Air Force Air Commando MTT demonstrated in
Asuncion, Paraguay.

8. Other Special Actions.

a. Latin American Military Communications System (LAMCS)
in Ecuador and Nicaragua and the Ground-to-Air facilities in Ecuador
have been completed.

b. Authority to proceed with the LAMCS in Honduras was
received from the US State Department on 17 December 1963. This
facility should be completed within 120 days.

c. Emergency power units to improve reliability of US Army
and Air Force Mission radio stations in Colombia and Venezuela,
shipped from the United States, arrived in Bogota and Caracas res-pectively.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

ASGOSA

353
CUBA

SECRET

091.411

020
Staff

031.2
JCS

201
Reynolds, John

1-2-63

From: John Reynolds, KCS
To: C/Staff
Subj: Interdepartmental Coordinating Comte of Cuban Affairs: Rpt on Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to Counter Subversion (U)

rw Incl: None
Dis: Col. Haig 1-3-64
FW 1-30-63

OSA FORM 3
31 MAY 49

THIS PAPER BELONGS TO:
Administrative Support Group Division, Office of the Secretary of the Army

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 6

OSA 3004

OSA
353
Cuba
1-2-63
FW 1-30-63

* U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1963-683865


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

SAOGC/LtColHaig/lc/59856/18Dec63.

December 18, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR COLONEL WADE ROBERT
Office of the Secretary of Defense
(International Security Affairs)

SUBJECT: State Paper Entitled "Terrorism in the Latin
American Countries on the Critical Insurgency List"

Enclosed herewith is a paper prepared by a member of the
Cuban Coordinating Committee at the Department of State (Mr.
William Bowdler, 182-3736) for use by the Department of State
representative at the Special Group (Counterinsurgency) meeting on
December 19, 1963. The paper was provided to this office by State
on December 18 with the request that Department of Defense
comments, particularly on the basic memorandum, be obtained.
Although this office is very much concerned with the aspects of the
paper which deal with the problem of Castro-inspired subversion,
the broader implications of the paper pertain to the Latin American
area and the military assistance programs related thereto. These
are, of course, matters of primary concern to your office. There-
fore, the attached paper is forwarded to you for appropriate action
with the request that your comments, if any, be coordinated with
this office so that they can be correlated to actions currently under
the purview of this office.

Signed:
A. M. Haig
Lt Colonel, USA

Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel

Enclosure
As Stated

OSA, ASG
Mr Califano
LtCol Haig

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

SAOGC/LtColHaig/lc/59856/18Dec63

December 18, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR DIRECTOR, DDR&E
Office of the Secretary of Defense

SUBJECT: Anti-Sabotage Operations in Latin America

The Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs (ICCOCA) has recently considered a CIA proposal to provide guidance to US firms in Latin America confronted with Castro-communist inspired sabotage of their facilities and assets. CIA has contracted for the preparation of a report which will consolidate the experiences of several US firms in Latin America in combatting sabotage. After consideration by the ICCOCA this report will be furnished through our country teams in Latin America to local US firms to assist them in instituting appropriate anti-sabotage programs.

I would be most grateful if you would prepare a brief report designed to supplement the CIA project which would include enumeration of general guidelines which might be adopted by US firms in the Latin American area in combatting sabotage. In particular, an enumeration of known appropriate anti-sabotage devices available on the commercial market together with the manufacturer's names would be most helpful.

A member of my staff has discussed this project with Mr. Phelps of your staff, who has indicated that DDR&E might be of assistance in this matter based on a recent field trip to Venezuela where problems peculiar to that area were studied at the request of the US Ambassador. It is also possible that commercial devices developed for South Vietnam would have applicability in Latin America. Because this project is designed for distribution to several Latin American countries, it is requested that where possible guidelines be developed which might have general application throughout Latin America, but with emphasis on key subversive target areas. Present plans anticipate finalization of this project by December 23, 1963.

OSA, ASG
Mr Califano
LtCol Haig

Signed:
A. M. Haig
Lt. Colonel, USA

Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

17 DEC 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. JOHN H. CRIMMINS
Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
Department of State

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban
Affairs: Report on the Status of Implementation of
Actions Designed to Counter Subversion

Enclosed herewith is the Report on the Status of Implementation
of Actions Designed to Counter Subversion for the period 1 November-
1 December 1963. The format of this report adheres to the topic out-
line disseminated at the meeting of the Subcommittee on Subversion,
September 13, 1963.

It is requested that this office be provided with 12 copies of the
final report. It is assumed that each of the representatives will have
an opportunity to consider the final report before it is forwarded.

Signed
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.

Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel

Enclosure
As Stated

Mr. Califano
Lt Col Haig
ASG

OSA 353 CUBA

12-17-66

FW 1-30-63
136063

OSA, ASG Control No.29756

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS TAKEN
BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO
COUNTER SUBVERSION FOR THE
PERIOD 1 NOV - 1 DEC 1963

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms.

a. On 9 November 1963 the Commander-in-Chief, US
Southern Cominand (USCINCSO) advised the Joint Chiefs of Staff
(JCS) of reports concerning suspected subversive arme smuggling
into Venezuela or Colombia from the Colon Free Zone, Panama.
USCINCSO initiated surveillance at first light on 9 November 1963
to detect and track surface vessels which might be engaged in the
subversive traffic. The JCS directed the Commander-in-Chief,
Atlantic (CINCLANT) to commence surveillance with radar equipped
aircraft and to keep USCINCSO advised of all information. Sus-
pected craft were not positively identified or intercepted; however,
there were indications that an unidentified surface vessel off the
Rio Hacha area of Colombia and in Colombian watere was probably
in contact with small boats operating from the Colombian coastline
at night.

b. As directed by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, USCINEso
developed a plan under which the United States could provide assist
ance to Venesuelan forces, on three levels of participation, designed
to prevent the surreptitious movement of Castro-Communist arme
and personnel into Venezuela. To be fully effective, the plan calls
for US elements operating from Venezuelan territory which is not
considered a likely subject for approval by the Government of
Venezuela at the present time.

c. A joint survey and mobile training team of eleven men was
provided by USCINCSO to Venezuela on 22 November 1963, upon
approval of the concept by the Government of Venezuela. The purpове
of the team is to train Venezuelan military personnel in organizing
and operating a joint operations center; in improving capabilities
in the plotting and coordination of intelligence data, and aerial photo-
graphy; and in coordinating all Venezuelan military and paramilitary
organizations involved in surveillance and intercept operations.

SECRET

DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS
DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS
DOD DIR 5200.10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

5.  Strengthening of Counterinsurgency Capabilities.

a. Two minesweepers from the US Atlantic Command, USS STURDY and USS SWERVE with Commander Mine Division 44 embarked, commenced a schedule of visits to Caribbean ports in Costa Rica, Nicaragua and Guatemala. Visits are intended to assist each country in improving its coastal and off-shore surveillance effort, to improve intercept capabilities with respect to the prevention of infiltration of arms and subversive personnel through the countries' territorial waters, and to establish procedures which would provide for US assistance in final interception when requested. Visits in November, under the supervision of USCINCSO, covered Puerto Limon, Costa Rica; Bluefields and Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua; and Puerto Barrios, Guatemala.

b. Seventy-eight Latin American officers, previously enrolled, were in attendance during November at courses stressing counterinsurgency conducted by the US Army Canal Zone school. Two officers graduated from the US Army Counterinsurgency Course at Fort Bragg, North Carolina on 12 November 1963 and two additional officers are now in attendance.

c. Seven US Army Counterinsurgency Mobile Training Teams based in the Canal Zone, consisting of twenty officers and thirty-five enlisted men, provided training in seven Latin American countries during November.

d. Nine enlisted men from Chile were in attendance at Marine Corps schools at Camp Pendleton, California in November.

e. US Coast Guard training in small boat operations was provided in the Canal Zone for fifteen students from five Caribbean countries in the operation and maintenance of forty-foot Coast Guard utility boats. A Coast Guard mobile training team of one officer and two enlisted men, based in the Canal Zone, provided training in Costa Rica for the reconditioning of Coast Guard utility boats. Five members of the Costa Rican Guardia Civil are receiving on-the-job training in connection with reconditioning of the boats.

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

f. A US Air Force counterinsurgency team of five officers and eight enlisted men, based in the Canal Zone, provided training for Ecuadorian Air Force personnel in Ecuador.

g. At the request of USCINSO, and with the enthusiastic support of the Venezuelan Government, a small boat program has been initiated to provide security for the Lake Maracaibo region. Arrangements have been made through the US Navy under Military Credit Sales agreement for the manufacture of six (6) 25-foot and four (4) 31-foot inboard-outboard, fiberglass hull boats by Bertram Boat Company, Miami, for delivery in December 1963 or early January 1964. A SEAL-trained Mobile Training Team (MTT) of one officer and five enlisted men will be provided by the Navy and will report to the equipment supplier in time to become fully acquainted with the boats by 15 December. The MTT will accompany the boats to Venezuela and will remain up to two months in country to provide necessary familiarization training.

6. Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Surveillance.

a. Upon receipt of intelligence pertaining to suspected arms smuggling from the Canal Free Zone, Panama into Colombia or Venezuela, the USCINCS0 relayed this information to Colombia and Venezuela by the Military Alerting System. The US Ambassador to Colombia conveyed the information to the Government of Colombia. Colombian Navy and Air Force elements were assigned increased surveillance missions in the Caribbean coastal area of Colombia by Colombian military authorities and results of their surveillance activities were provided to USCINCSO by the US Military Group Commander in Colombia. The results of US air surveillance of the expected route and landing area, undertaken by US Air Force and Naval air elements were transmitted to the US Military Group Commander in Colombia for passage to the Colombian military authorities.

b. The motor vessel BLUE STAR, of Panamanian registry, was apprehended by Ecuadorian authorities in November 1963 as it was attempting the clandestine introduction of contraband articles

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

into Ecuador. Ship movement information had been provided to the
US Naval Attache Bogota by the District Intelligence Officer of the
Fifteenth Naval District. There was no apparent involvement of
Cuban arms or Cuban trained personnel in this instance.

7. Other Special Actions.

a. Construction is now in progress on the Latin American
Military Communications System (LAMCS) in Quito, Ecuador; the
terminal station is expected to be completed in December 1963.
The station in Nicaragua is expected to be completed in early
December 1963.

b. In response to a request by USCINCSO, action was taken
on 15 November 1963 to expedite delivery of communications equip-
ment required to implement a Jamaican integrated coastal surveillance
system. The system was originally approved as part of the $500
thousand one-time grant of Military Assistance material directed
by the President in April 1963, but world-wide shortages of specific
items threatened to delay shipment in some cases until FY 1965. In
view of the urgency of this requirement, priorities were adjusted
to provide delivery by 1 January 1964. The itoms include:

12 AN/CRC radios and installation kits
3 AN/ARC 3 radios
1 AN/PSM 6
1 Wattmeter

c. The Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Office of Public Safety,
State-AID, are studying the possibility of increasing the stock level
of certain items of Riot Control Equipment in the Canal Zone, in order
to meet rapidly and effectively multiple contingencies that may occur
in Latin America. In the past, the size of some requests have neceesi-
tated shipment of certain items directly from the United States, with
resultant increase in cost and time. USCINCSO has been asked for
his recommendations on stock levels.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# CONFIDENTIAL

![Department of defense logo] OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20301

INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AFFAIRS

2 DEC 1963

In reply refer to:
I-28596/63

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR., THE GENERAL COUNSEL,
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:
Report on Status of Implementation of Actions to Counter
Subversion (U)

The enclosure to your Memorandum No. 81, subject as above, dated
26 November 1963, has been received. The report appears to be
complete and appropriate for submission to the President.

SIGNED

Frank K. Sloan
Deputy Assistant Secretary

![Handwritten text: Aug - Mr. Califano]

DOWNGRADED AT 3 YEAR INTERVALS;
DECLASSIFIED AFTER 12 YEARS.
DOD DIR 5200.10

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 14

![Stamped text: ZECRETARIAT OF THE ARMY OFFICE DEC 11 8.3 OFFICE COORDINATION & RECORD C125VLCHED]

![ASG text] OSA 353 Cuba 12-2-63 f/w 1-30-63


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

26 NOV 1963,

MEMORANDUM NO. 81 FOR GENERAL EARLE G. WHEELER (JCS)

MR. FRANK K. SLOAN, Dep Asst Sec/Def ISA
(Regional Affairs)
MAJOR GENERAL J. D. ALGER, USA
REAR ADMIRAL W. F. A. WENDT, USN
MAJOR GENERAL J. W. CARPENTER, III, USAF
BRIGADIER GENERAL C. J. QUILTER, USMC

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs: Report on Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to Counter Subversion (U)

Reference: DA Memo 164, subject as above, dated September 19, 1963

Attached herewith is a final draft of the Report to the President of the Subcommittee on Cuban Subversion on Progress Made During September 1963 in Curbing Cuban Subversion in Latin America.

It is requested that comments, if any, be provided this office by 1200 hours, 2 December 1963. The Department of Defense portion of subject report is based on submissions provided in response to referenced memorandum.

Signed
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel

Enclosure
As Stated

cc: Mr. Yarmolinsky (OSD)

Lt Col Haig

Mr. Califano

ASG-

SECRET

OSA, ASG Control No. 27071

NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 15

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING
DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

DRAFT
11/13/63

SECRET

# REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE

## on CUBAN SUBVERSION

## ACTION TAKEN DURING SEPTEMBER 1963 IN CURBING

## CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECRET

## DRAFT

## 11/13/63

1.  Control of Travel to and From Cuba

Department of State

a. Instructed Embassy Tunis to call to the attention of the Foreign Ministry our concern at increased evidence of *Aeroflot* attempts to establish North Africa routes to Cuba, especially through Algeria, and our conviction that Tunisia has a valid case in thwarting any Bloc civil air penetration of Africa.

b. Instructed Embassy Conakry to contact Guinean Government officials, reminding them of their past assurances that no *Aeroflot* flights to Cuba would be permitted to use Conakry facilities, and to express our concern at recent indications that *Aeroflot* was preparing to establish service to Cuba via Conakry.

c. Instructed Consulate Fort au France to investigate and report on alleged landing and refuelling of *Cubana* aircraft at Guadeloupe. Also double-checked directly with the Shell Company, the supplier of the fuel.

Instructed Embassy Paris to query the French Government about alleged *Cubana* use of the Guadeloupe facility, and to express our concern at this evidence of Cuba's attempt to use French Caribbean dependencies for flights to and From


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

2

from Latin America.

d. Instructed Embassy Rio to make a new approach to the Brazilian Foreign Ministry to express our concern at Cuba's continuing use of "charter" flights to Brazil and the laxity of Brazilian officials in the control of passengers. During the course of the month the Brazilian Government began tightening controls against Cubana flights. Specifically, all requests for landing permission were henceforth to be processed by the Foreign Office, with appropriate delays. Also tighter passenger, crew and cargo controls were to be instituted when a Cubana flight is permitted to use Brazilien facilities.

e. Determined that the U.K. had specifically warned Cubana that no aviation fuel was available in Barbados and that H.M.G. would, in the future, respect Shell Company's decision to deny fueling to Cubana planes.

f. Continued inter-Departmental efforts to prevent resumption of ferry service between Cuba and the U.S. which a British citizen, Harold Derber, has been attempt-ing to establish during the past several month.

g.

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 18


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET
- 3 -

g. Instructed Consul Georgetown to investigate and report on evidence the Department received which indicates that Cuba is planning to sell merchant vessels to British Guiana in order to facilitate the establishment of regular service for passengers and cargo.

Central Intelligence Agency

a. In connection with the Seventh Congress of the International Union (UIA) held in Habana September 29 - October 3, 1963 the Buenos Aires Station:

(1) encouraged the Argentine National Federation of Architects to oppose Argentine attendance at the Habana meeting, with the result that 25 of the 39 practicing architects who had planned to attend cancelled their participation;

(2) arranged to prevent the attendance of any officially authorized Argentine delegation at the Habana meeting, but encouraged the attendance of an official Argentine delegation of anti-Communist coloration at an international architects meeting to be held in Mexico in October;

(3)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

(3) delivered a memorandum to the Minister of Interior concerning Cuban charter flights to Brazil which supported the Ambassador's request that the Argentine government express concern over such flights.

b. Rio de Janeiro Station continued to furnish the Embassy with data on *Cubana* flights to Brazil used in representations to the Brazilian Foreign Office. Also induced Rio airport officials to impose stringent passport control and baggage efforts. These efforts contributed to the Brazilian Government's failing to issue landing permits for *Cubana* flights on September 21, 24 and 25, 1963 forcing their cancellation. When *Cubana*, because of harassment at Rio, began using the landing facilities in Sao Paulo where controls were non existent, CIA initiated and obtained a local liaison agreement for similar harassment in the event of future *Cubana* flights to Sao Paulo.

c. Mexico City station inspired a press campaiga of hoof and mouth and smallpox epidemics in Cuba, prior to the Architects Congress to discourage participation in the Habana meeting. The resulting quarantines and innoculations


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET
- 5 -

innoculations were a factor in discouraging 52 of the
60 Mexican professional architects who were expected to
go to Habana from attending the Congress.

II. Control of Movement of Propaganda

Measures to counter act

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 21


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

## III. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and arms

Department of State

Made the necessary arrangements through Embassy Tegucigalpa with the Government of Honduras for the dispatch of three U.S. helicopters to give logistical assistance to the Honduran Army in its effort to locate and eliminate the band of guerrillas allegedly operating in the Fatuca River area along the Honduran-Nicaraguan border.

Department of Defense

Three CH-13 helicopters from USSOUTHECOM supported Honduran armed forces conducting counter-insurgency operations in the Patuca River area. A total of 27 sorties were flown resulting in delivery of 3928 pounds of supplies, evacuation of 12 sick Honduran soldiers, airlift of 19 passengers to points in the operational area, and recovery of 400 pounds of supplies from the operational area.

IV.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET

IV. Control of Transfer of Funds

Department of State

a. Instructed Embassy Mexico City to inform the Mexican airline SAESA that their proposal to purchase surplus Cuban aircraft would in fact result in the accrual to Cuba of a significant amount of hard currency, and the U.S. would have to oppose the transaction. Further, if dollars were involved in the purchase, it would be a violation of the Cuban Assets Control Regulations.

b. Informed Department of Treasury, Foreign Assets Control Office, of the activities of Somondelp Enterprises, a Miami firm engaged in sending remittances to persons in Cuba in violation of the Cuban Assets Control Regulations.

c. Instructed Consulate, Belize to inform Mr. Richard Joyce, an American national, that his comercial transactions with Cuba were in violation of the Cuban Assets Control Regulations and that he is prohibited from engaging in such trade.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

V. Strengthening of Counter-Insurgency Capabilities

Department of Defense

a. Thirteen Latin American officers graduated from the counter-insurgency Operations Course of the U.S. Army School for Latin America in the Panama Canal Zone on 20 September. During the month, a total of 91 Latin American officers enrolled in courses stressing counter-insurgency at the Army Canal Zone school.

b. Eight U.S. Army counter-insurgency mobile training teams were providing training to the Armed Forces of five Latin American countries during the period. U.S. Air Force coupter-insurgency training teams vere in two countries.

c. In the Canal Zone, 15 students from five countries were under instruction in the operation of coast guard utility patrol craft used for coastal surveillance. Six students from two countries were undergoing similar training in the United States

d. A U.S. Navy counter-insurgency training team is is Venezuela to assist in improving the security of oil installations in Lake Maracaibo.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

e. Costa Rica and Honduras were provided one
Cessna 185 aircraft each for medical civic action and
internal security purposes.

f. On May 25, 1963, three M-43B KAMAN helicopters
were provided to the government of Colombia on a 90-day
loan. The Colombian Government requested an extension
of the loan and a 90-day extension has been approved.

Central Intelligence Agency

a. Guantanamo City Station has recruited, on a
trial basis, a former member of the 13 November guerrilla
group and debriefings are in process. Negotiations
continue with the Goverment of Guatemala for the
fermation of a new internal security service.

b. Lima Station has agreed to furnish the Peruvian
Investigations Police (PIP) with an outboard motor
to increase their patrol capability on rivers crossing
the Bolivian frentier. Our information is that the
rivers crossing this frontier have provided the primary
evenues for recent attempts to gain clandestine entry
of personnel and weapons into Peru.

VI.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET
- 10 -

VI. Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Subversion

Department of Defense

Engineering installation work continued on radio stations for Managua, Nicaragua and Tegucigalpa, Honduras. No further progress has been made in reaching agreements with Colombia and Ecuador for rights to establish radio stations in those countries. Installation of the new trans-Isthmian commercial cable in Panama is nearing completion.

Central Intelligence Agency

CIA Stations continued their exchange of intelligence information with local intelligence agencies. The following actions are of special significance:

a. The CIA Station in Buenos Aires furnished the Argentine State Intelligence Service (SIDE) with information on the travel of Argentines to Cuba, and requested that SIDE provide name traces and debrief these travellers on their return whenever feasible. SIDE provided the traces, but did not conduct any debriefings. The Station has not felt it feasible to try to remedy this omission in view of the personnel changes expected within SIDE after the new government is installed on

b.
NW 50955 DocId: 31276192, Page 26


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET
- 11 -

b. As a result of information passed by the Bogota
Station to the Administrative Department of Security
(DAS) concerning Colombian travellers to Cuba, a number
of passport violations have been discovered in which
travellers to Cuba are using passporta issued to other
persons. There is a reluctance, however, on the part
of the Colombian Government to prosecute this type
of violation.

c. At the urging of the CIA Station in Lima, the
National Intelligence Service (SIN) instructed one of
its penetrations of leftist groups to campaign for a trip
to Cuba in order to receive guerrilla warfare training.
This asset has been offered, and has accepted, an opportunity
to make the trip by the Leftist Revolutionary Movement
(MIR), primary vehicle of Caben sobversive activities
in Peru. Briefing and debriefing of the asset will be
done by the SIN.

The Peruvian Navel Intelligence Service (FNIS) has,
in response to the efforts of the Station in Lima, sent
one of its agents to Chile where he will sign aboard a
Chilean freighter celling at Habana. The asset has been
giwa specific intelligence requirements to fulfill.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

The Prime Minister and Minister of Government and
Police has requested from the CIA representative in
Lima any information that he might supply on subversive
elements posing a threat to the Government of Peru.
This request has opened an additional channel to the
highest level of the Government with a concomitant
prospectfor effective action when needed.

d. Through regular liaison channels, the Venezuelan
General Directorate of Police (DIGEFOL) has been provided
by CIA with the names of all Venezuelans known to have
travelled to Cuba from February through August 1963.
This activity will be carried out on a continuing basis;
the names are now being integrated into the regular
watch list kept at international airports in Venezuela.
Thus far, at least three returnees have been arrested
on the basis of the information supplied to DICEPOL.
DICEPOL has indicated its appreciation of the data
being supplied and desires that the arrangement be
continced.

VII. Surveillance of Cuban Malomtic, Commercial and Cultural
Masions

No special actions to report.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

## VIII. Other Special Actions

United States Information Agency

a. The Agency's press service transmitted seven articles relating to Guban subversion on its wireless file service to USIS offices throughout Latin America for placement in the local newspapers. Developments reported in these articles included demands by the Bolivian Senate for the ouster of the Cuban Chargé d'Affaires, terrorism and goverment counteraction in Venezuela, the seizure in Ecuador of an arms and explosives cache reportedly received fron Cuba, several articles on the International Union of Architects Congress in Habena (emphasizing the intent of the Castro regime to use the Congress as a forum for its propaganda claims), and Assistant Secretary Martin's Los Angeles speech in which be pointed out the regime's affinity for Chinese communist doctrine and its continued emphasis on violent revolution and subversion. In all, the press service transmitted 27 articles and commentaries during September en the subject of Cuba, the other articles dealing for the most part with economic and political conditions inside the comitry as evidenced by the regime's own admissions and the reports of refugees.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

## SECRET

B. The Voice of America Spanish broadcasts to Latin America during September carried a total of 20 news analyses, commentaries, press round-ups, and interviews related to the subject of Cuban subversion. Some of the developments treated included the following:

A commentary on communist embassies as channels for subversion; a news analysis on the U.S. students who visited Cuba; Assistant Secretary Martin's Los Angeles speech; a news analyses on Cuban subversion as an obstacle in the normalization of U.S.-Soviet relations; a three-part series on university autonomy in Latin America; a feature on the letter of a Colombian student who went to Cuba on a scholarship and was disillusioned by the communist indoctrination; a commentary on Che Guevara's recent article on revolutionary strategy; and a commentary on guerrilla training in Cuba. Many of these items were repeated several times in the broadcasts. The "Rendezvous with Cuba" hour carried four or five commentaries and interviews nightly on economic and political developments inside Cuba. Of special note, the Cuban radio and Castro himself reacted angrily to Voice of America broadcasts about Che Guevara's article and to commentaries that Cuba had accepted an agricultural role in

A


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

the communist bloc and had postponed its plans to industrialize.

c. On September 27, the Agency issued a circular instruction to alllits Latin American posts urging greater attention to opportunities for publicizing Cuban stimulated subversion, suggesting the various types of information activities to support this effort, and requesting monthly reports of field actions taken to implement the instruction. This was done as a follow-up to the original instruction on Guban subversion which was issued April 3, 1963.

Central Intelligence Agency

a. CIA in Brazilosasisted in the defection and exploitation of a Cuban athlete Roberto Perez Ondarse in Porto Alegre on 4 September 1963. Perez was a member of the Cuban basket-ball team which participated in the World University Games (FISU) held in Forto Alegre Brazil in early September 1963.

b. Assistance was given to the Government of Goatamala in the interrogation of some of those wiro were arrested in commsetion with the Communist Party documents that were confiscated in late May 1963.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# SECRET
- 16 -

Only one of those interrogated admitted to any involvement with the captured documents, the Communist Party, guerrillas, or anything else that could be construed as incriminating. The one who did adnit knowledge denied that he was involved in any way. The Covernment of Guatemala wants to interrogate this person again at a later date.

c. CIA Station in Meatavideo arranged for an interview between en Uruguayan military intelligence officer and a recent defector from the Montevideo Cuban Embassy during which extensive information regarding Cuban subversive activities was revealed. The Uruguayan officer prepared a report containing this data and presented it to the National Council of Government which has been slow to indicate concern over communist subversive activity in Uruguay. As a result of this report, the NCG has directed the Minister of Interior to appoint a special commission to study the problem of Comimist sabversion and to mehe recommendations es to what course of action should be taken by the Uruguayan Government. Should the Government wish to press for passage of

stronger

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

SECRET
- 17 -

stronger anti-subversive legislation the Station has taken
steps to prepare Uruguyan public opinion by planning
simultaneous local press releases of the salient
features of the defector report with similer press
reporting in the United States where the defector willbe
brought to light.

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 33
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: THE GENERAL COUNSEL                                                                                     29 October 1963

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:
Report on Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to
Counter Subversion (U)

1.  (U) The following information is submitted in response to Memorandum No. 64, General Counsel, dated 19 September 1963.

2.  (S) Reference Topic 5 (Strengthening of Counterinsurgency Capabilities):

a. Canal Zone -

(1) Fifteen students from six Latin American countries are attendees in the ten weeks Counterinsurgency Operations Course of the U. S. Army School of the Americas which began 30 September 1963.

(2) There are 24 students from eight Latin American countries attending the 16 weeks Military Intelligence Course which began 23 August 1963.

b. CONUS -

(1) Three students from three Latin American countries are attending the Special Warfare Course at Fort Bragg, N. C.

(2) One Peruvian student is attending the Civil Affairs Course at Fort Gordon, Georgia.

c. In the month of October 1963, eight Counterinsurgency Mobile Training Teams (MTT) (14 Off-48 EM) were deployed in six countries to conduct counterinsurgency training.

d. A U. S. Army officer is attending the Command and General Staff School of the Uruguayan Army and upon completion of this course in December 1963, will be assigned to the OUSARMA, Uruguay. He will perform intelligence advisory functions as an additional duty.

e. An additional officer has been assigned as assistant USARMA in Guatemala, increasing the capability for intelligence assistance in that country.

OSA. ASG. CONTROL NO. 2505A

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS:
NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED
DOD DIR 5200.10

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 34


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SECRET

OPS SW OP
SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:
Report on Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to
Counter Subversion (U)

3. (S) Reference Topic 6 (Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Sub-
   version):

a. The number of intelligence exchange agreements between the
U. S. Army and local military services in Latin America has been increased
to 13.

b. The additional officer assigned as Assistant USARMA, Guatemala,
raises the collection potential in that nation and may develop information
which can be exchanged with Latin American countries.

J. D. ALGER
Major General, GS
Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff
for Military Operations
for Special Operations

G. S. BLANCHARD
Colonel, GS
Director of Special Warfare
ODCSOPS

2
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

Lt Col Haig/78029/290ct63/md

October 29, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. JOHN CRIMMINS
Coordinator of Cuban Affairs
Department of State

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban
Affairs: Revision of the Paper Entitled "Training of
Latin Americans in the United States"

At a meeting of the Subcommittee on Subversion on October 10,
1963, the Department of Defense (DOD) Representative was requested
to review and up-date the DOD portions of pages 4, 5 and 6 of subject
report. Enclosed herewith is a line in line out revision of the report.
A revision has also been made to page 7, which is designed to make
the DOD portions of the report current.

Signed:
A. M. Haig
Lt Colonel, USA
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel

Attachment
As Stated

![handwritten text sent Mr. Califano Lt Col Haig ASG]

OSA ASG. CONTROL MO. 2494 C FILE

SECRET

![stamp RECEIVE OF THE OFFICE OCT 30 11 56 AM '63 OFFICE COORDINATION & RECORD OFFICE EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY TO COORDINATION & RECORD OFFICE]

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 36

OSA 353-CUBA
10/29/63

FW 1/30/63


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET

DOD Revision to Paper Entitled
"Training of Latin Americans in the United States"

3. Military Assistance Programs

At the present time end of FY 63, 2,277 1791 Latin
American military students are were receiving, or are-pregraнипед-to-
Deceive have received training in the United States under the Military
Assistance Program. Courses vary in length from two-week orientation
tours to 83-week flying training courses. However, the majority of
instruction is for periods of less than six months, and is distributed
in fields as follows:

|                                         |     |     |
| --------------------------------------- | :-: | :-: |
| Flying Instruction (8-83 weeks)         | 172 | 154 |
| Command, Staff and Operational          | 748 | 638 |
| (direction and control of               |     |     |
| armed forces, 4-23 weeks)               |     |     |
| Communications/Electronics (6-29 weeks) | 66  | 36  |
| Equipment Maintenance and Repair        | 336 | 232 |
| (5-28 weeks)                            |     |     |
| Logistics (2-14 weeks)                  | 46  | 33  |
| Administration (4-40 weeks)             |  8  |  7  |
| Professional Specialized                | 306 | 193 |
| (Engineering, Medical, Legal            |     |     |
| etc., 4-20 weeks)                       |     |     |
| Orientation (2-3 weeks)                 | 596 | 498 |

OSA. ASG. CONTROL KO2 24940

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 37


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

## 7. Difficulties Encountered in Filling Available Military Quotas in the United States

The failure of Latin American countries to take full advantage of military quotas offered has been a persistent problem. In 1962, for example, 15 per cent of the quotas offered were unfilled. This unfavorable situation derives from many causes. During the current fiscal year 18 per cent of unfilled Army quotas have been due to inability to meet course pre-requisites: 22 per cent because of lack of sufficient funds; and 33 per cent because of political upheavals. The armed forces of the average Latin American country are small, and the availability of qualified candidates who can be spared for extended periods of obligated service and the lack of a professional non-commissioned officer corps also tends to discourage the training of enlisted men in United States schools, since large sums from limited budgets to train enlisted men who will remain in service only a brief time. Another significant deterrent is the per diem rates required by law to be paid by some countries to service personnel sent outside their homeland. In Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Uruguay the legal rates for personnel serving abroad are too high to be supportable by defense budgets; while in other countries, such as Bolivia and Paraguay, the standard rates are too late to provide a reasonable living for students.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

CONFIDENTIAL

October 19, 1963

MEMORANDUM NO. 74 FOR GENERAL EARLE G. WHEELER (JCS)
CAPTAIN E. R. ZUMWALT, JR., USN (OSD)
MAJOR GENERAL J. D. ALGER, USA
REAR ADMIRAL W.F.A. WENDT, USN
MAJOR GENERAL J. W. CARPENTER, III, USAF
BRIGADIER GENERAL WILLIAM K. JONES, USMC

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:
Report of Meeting of Subcommittee on Subversion

Circulated herewith for information is a report of the October 10, 1963 meeting of subject subcommittee.

Signed
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel

Attachment
As Stated

cc: Mr. Yarmolinsky (OSD)
Mr. Califano
Lt Col Haig
ASG

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

CONFIDENTIAL

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

October 14, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting of Subcommittee on Subversion,
October 10, 1963

Outlined below is a summary of deliberations of subject sub committee during the meeting of October 10 at 1430 hours in Room 6273, New State. Agenda is at Tab A.

Agenda Item 1

The Final Subcommittee Report for the months of July and August was circulated. The report has been circulated to points of contact by separate correspondence.

Agenda Item 2

The Subcommittee discussed the SCCS letter which referred to the recent trip of US students to Cuba. (Attached to enclosure 1) It was apparent to all that criticism of the US could be implied from this letter. The Chairman stated he would provide the SCCS with the substance of State's telegram 647, which outlines actions undertaken by the US Government against the students.

Agenda Item 3

a. CIA, in coordination with the Esso Corporation's Chief of Industrial Security, will prepare guidance data for distribution to Latin America which could be utilized by US commercial firms for the pro- tection of their facilities against sabotage. The DOD representative was requested to ascertain whether ARPA had available some commer cial protection devices which might be applicable for use in Latin America against sabotage attacks. The CIA representative stated he believed ARPA had developed some devices for this purpose.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

CONFIDENTIAL

b. State will prepare a circular telegram to all Latin American
Ambassadors requesting that an immediate review of Country Team
Emergency and Evacuation Plans be conducted to insure that plans were
adequate to meet a stepped-up campaign of Castro-inspired sabotage.

Agenda Item 4

In lieu of a written report on the Honduran guerrilla problem,
the DOD representative proposed a firsthand report to the Subcommittee.
Colonel Walter Hutchins, who has recently returned from assignment as
US Military Attache to Honduras, presented a review of the subversion
situation in that country and then answered questions from the Subcom-
mittee. The general thrust of Colonel Hutchins' remarks confirmed that
there has been considerable Castro subversive activity in Honduras. The
most serious inroads are achieved through communist radio and press
and communist educators. Colonel Hutchins commented that recent
guerrilla activity along the Nicaraguan border was probably limited to
groups totaling between 100 and 200 men. He emphasized that Cuban-
trained Honduran guerrillas are successfully transiting by air through
Grand Cayman Island and British Honduras with some transiting Havana
to Jamaica via Belgrade. In response to a query from a State representa-
tive, Colonel Hutchins pointed out that he believed that both Honduran
military and commercial interests were genuinely concerned with Castro
subversion and that some of their leaders were perfectly capable of
discerning the true nature of the communist threat to Honduras.

Agenda Item 5

The Chairman stated that the paper for training Latin Americans
in the United States (included in the "Krulak Report"*) was too broad in
scope for implementation by the Subcommittee and proposed that it be
rewritten under narrower parameters. In this regard, the Defense
representative was requested to review pages 4, 5 and 6 of the paper
on training contained in the report with the view toward bringing the
Defense portion up-to-date.

Miscellaneous

The Chairman stated that preparatory actions on the Isthmian
meeting at San Salvador tentatively scheduled for the second half of
November would be held in abeyance pending further developments in
the Honduran situation.

![signature of A. M. Haig, Lt Colonel, GS]

A. M. Haig, Lt Colonel, GS

*Report prepared by the Subcommittee on Castro-Communist Subversion
containing a series of action programs designed to impede the Castro-
Communist subversive effort in Latin America.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

CONFIDENTIAL

October 9, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Subcommittee on Cuban Subversion.

SUBJECT: Meeting of October 10.

You are invited to a meeting of the Subcommittee on Cuban Subversion of the Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs to be held on Thursday, October 10, at 2:30 P.M. in Room 6263, State Department (ARA Conference Room).

AGENDA

1. Consideration of draft of monthly report for September.

2. Discussion of letter (copy attached) from SCCS of Pan American Union.

3. Status of papers on contingency planning.

4. Report by DOD on Honduran guerrilla problem.

5. Consideration of the paper on training of Latin Americans in the United States.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# SPECIAL CONSULTACJE COMMITTEE ON SECURITY
COMISION ESPECIAL DE CONSULTA SOBRE SEGURIDAD
COMISSÃO CONSULTIVA ESPECIAL DE SEGURANÇA
COMMISSION SPECIALE DE CONSULTATION SUR LA SÉCURITÉ

![logo of the Organization of American States]

PAN AMERICAN UNION
Washington 6, D.C., U.S.A.
Cable address: PAU WASH DC

October lst., 1963

Sir:

As you know, the Special Consultative Committee on Security is presently holding the first of its regular meetings, in accordance with the statutes approved by the Council of the Organization on April 23 of this year.

For the better fulfillment of its work, and in accordance with Article, '13 of these statutes, the Committee intends to request of the governments of the member states of the Organization any information that they may have regarding specific activities of international communism in this hemisphere.

Among the important activities of this kind are the trips that many individuals make to Cuba for well-know ulterior purposes. In this connection, I should greatly appreciate it if you would furnish the Committee with whatever information your government may deem it advisable to present regarding the trip that a large group of U. S. citizens recently made to Cuba at the invitation of that country's goverzament, about which the Committee has learned through newspaper reports that have recently appeared in this country and in Latin America. This information would be treated with the confidence that your government deemed appropiate.

Thank you in advance for your valuable assistance in this matter.

Accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration.

Julio Cesar Doig Sanchez
Chairman
Special Consultative Committee
on Security

Mr. Ward P. Allen,
Alternate Representative of the United States
Council of the Organization of American States
Washington, D.C.

NW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 43


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

14 OCT 1963

MEMORANDUM NO. 71 FOR CAPTAIN E. R. ZUMWALT, JR., USN (OSD)
MAJOR GENERAL J. D. ALGER, USA
REAR ADMIRAL W. WENDT, USN
MAJOR GENERAL J. W. CARPENTER, III, USAF
BRIGADIER GENERAL W. K. JONES, USMC

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:
Actions Taken During July-August 1963 in Curbing Cuban
Subversion in Latin America

Attached is the final report of the Subcommittee on Subversion on
Actions Taken During July-August 1963 in Curbing Cuban Subversion in
Latin America.

Signed
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel

Attachment
As Stated

cc: Mr. Yarmolinsky (OSD)
DIA (Col Nigra)
Mr. Califano
Mr Col Haig
![ASG]

![feb. (m)]

OSA, ASG Control No. 2386 H FILE

SECRET REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED
FROM CLASSIFIED INCLOSURES

NW 50955 DocId:32276192 Page 44

OSA 353-CUBA
10/14/63
FW 1/30/63


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECRET

This document consists of 18 pages
No 14 of 44 Copies, Series A

# REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION:

## ACTIONS TAKEN DURING JULY-AUGUST 1963

### IN CURBING CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

![image of signature]

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatio
downgrading and
declassification

OSA, ASG Control No. 2386 H

HW 50955 DocId: 32276192 Page 45


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

SECRET

# 1. Control of Travel to and from Cuba

## Central Intelligence Agency

a. Developed highly useful information on frequency of Cuban "chartered" flights to Brazil, names and nationalities of passengers and crew, and lax measures of control followed by Brazilian authorities. Transmitted this information to station chiefs in the Latin American countries of the non-Brazilians travelling on those flights.

b. Maintained close watch over travel to and from Cuba. See Annex B for table of known travel of Latin Americans during July and August.

c. As a result of information furnished to him by the CIA Station in Buenos Aires and with the Station's urging, the Argentine Minister of Interior indicated that he would make every effort to prevent Argentine delegates from attending the International Union of Architects Congress in Havana.

d. At the urging of the CIA Station and the Embassy, the Bolivian Minister of Interior issued in mid-July an order prohibiting the granting of travel permits to Cuba or other bloc countries to Bolivian nationals.

e. Partly as a result of the efforts of the CIA station in Santiago, the Government of Chile prohibited the entry into Chile of organizers of the Cuban-sponsored Second Latin American Youth Congress, which had been scheduled to take place in Santiago in August. This was one of the factors which led to postponement of the Congress.

f. After considerable prodding by the CIA Station and the Embassy the Minister of Public Security of Costa Rica presented legislative proposals to the Costa Rican Assembly which will require all persons intending to travel to Communist countries to have their travel approved by a newly created Costa Rican security agency.

g. CIA Station in Mexico City developed information concerning the clandestine arrival of passengers in Vera Cruz

SECRET

GROUP 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SECRET

-2-

on Cuban merchant ships. Efforts are being made to obtain
more information and to encourage stricter controls by the
Mexican authorities.

Department of State

a. Instructed Embassy Conakry to try to persuade
Guinean authorities to deny use of airport facilities by
flights on Habana-Moscow route. These efforts achieved a
temporary withholding of permission for future regular flights,
at least until such time as the Soviets develop their own
refueling facilities at Conakry.

b. Instructed Embassy Rio to approach Brazilian
authorities to express our deep concern at the growing
frequency of Cuban non-scheduled flights to Brazil and request
their cooperation in curbing them. Also instructed our
Embassies in several Latin American countries to work with CIA
station chiefs in furnishing the names of nationals of those
countries travelling on these flights to local authorities
and urging them: (1) to institute tighter controls on their
own citizens travelling to Cuba, and (2) to express their
concern to the Brazilian Government over Cuban use of Brazil
as a way station for transporting subversives.

c. As a result of representations made to the
British Government about Cuban flights to the Cayman Islands
carrying Latin American subversives, the British developed
an administrative scheme which will effectively prohibit the
use of British Caribbean dependencies by *Cubana* as transit
points for passengers. The British intend to require transit
visas of passengers passing through their areas, and to
reject applications for such visas except in certain special
cases. Persons not possessing visas would be prevented from
leaving their aircraft, or would be returned to their point
of origin.

d. Instructed Embassy Mexico City on August 29 to
inform the Mexican airline CMA that the United States is
opposed to a proposal that CMA operate charter flights to

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET

-3-

carry refugees from Habana to Central America. CMA, as a
result, stated that they had no intention of proceeding
further with this project.

e. Instructed our missions in Curacao and the Hague
to investigate a report that KLM was planning to renew
scheduled Curacao-Habana flights and to reiterate US
opposition to resumption of air service to Cuba. KLM assured
our Embassy that there is no plan to initiate service,
scheduled or non-scheduled, to Habana.

f. Instructed Embassy Ottawa to express our strong
objections to a proposal that a Cubana charter flight pick
up a second group of U.S. students in Montreal to fly them
to Cuba. The flight was not authorized.

g. Instructed Consulate Georgetown to investigate
Cubana approaches to secure flight facilities. Mission
reported on August 1 that the Governor bed no knowledge of
any talks between the B.G. Ministry of Communications and
the Cuban Government regarding landing rights for Cubana
planes. The Governor indicated his intention to inquire
further and to keep us advised. London reported that neither
the Cuban nor the British Guiana Governments had raised the
issue of landing rights with H.M.G.

h. Urged the governments of Mexico, Canada, Jamaica
and the Netherlands to refuse to assist the Cuban Government
in its efforts to find a short route for return of the 58
American students who illegally travelled to Cuba. Also
informed Pan American Airways that we were opposed to a Cuban
request for a PAA charter flight to fly the students from
Habana to New York.

i. Instructed our missions at Port of Spain and
Barbados on several occasions to approach these governments
to express the concern of the U.S. at indications of Cuban
Interest in the use of their aviation facilities.

Embassy Port of Spain discussed with the Foreign Secretary
of Trinidad various legal moves available that would enable

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

-4-

GOTT to control movements of aircraft within their territory, citing examples of such controls instituted by Mexico, Canada and Ireland. He indicated receptiveness to the proposal that the list of suggestions be made available to the aviation officials concerned.

j. During a previous reporting period Embassy Santiago urged the government of Chile to refuse visas to Cuban delegated to a preparatory meeting for the II Latin American Youth Congress scheduled for August in the Chilean capital. Inability of Cuban delegates to obtain Chilean visas for this meeting is one of the contributing factors to the Cuban sponsors announcing during August that the meeting had been postponed.

k. Sent general instructions to our missions in countries which participate in the International Union of Architects asking them to urge the cooperation of governmental authorities in preventing or discouraging the attendance of their nationals to the VII UIA Congress in Habana, September 29 - October 4, 1963. Followed this up with instructions to individual posts to try where feasible to dissuade architects from free world countries from serving on the jury for the selection of a Bay of Pigs monument.

l. Urged Canadian Government to block a plan to commence food parcel shipments to Cuba on a commercial basis that would have required the establishment of scheduled weekly charter flights by Canadian planes.

2. Control of Movement of Cuban Propaganda

Central Intelligence Agency

Responding to the urging of the CIA Station, police of the State of Guanabara seized large quantities of propaganda brought into Brazil by passengers on the special Cubana flights. For example, some 50 pounds of printed propaganda was taken from the various passengers who arrived on the 16 August Cubana flight.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

SECRET

-5-

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms

Department of Defense

a. Continued surveillance of the area surrounding Cuba during the months of July and August at the same rate and with the same emphasis as prior to 1 July 1963.

b. Continued to maintain U.S. Forces, primarily from within the Atlantic Command, available to assist other Caribbean governments in the interception of suspicious craft in territorial waters, as might be requested. No such requests were received from any other government during the period covered by this report. However, U.S. Forces did keep track of the location of the Soviet merchant freighter MITCHURINSK, which was suspected of carrying subversives and arms from Cuba to British Guiana in mid-July. MITCHURINSK was under U.S. surveillance from its departure from Habana until United Kingdom forces assumed the task of keeping this ship under surveillance upon its approach to Georgetown, British Guiana. Subsequently, British police search of MITCHURINSK in British Guiana waters revealed nothing of a suspicious nature.

Central Intelligence Agency

At the repeated urging of the CIA Station in Lima, the Peruvian Government late in August published a new anti-terrorists law providing a penalty of no less than five years imprisonment for persons who participate in guerrilla activities or in the illegal manufacture of weapons or explosives.

The Peruvian National Intelligence Service is working on a lead furnished by the CIA Station in Lima concerning a 200 ton vessel reportedly involved in arms traffic.

Department of State

Instructed our Consulate General in Georgetown to investigate reports that commercial cargoes (which could

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

SECRET

-6-

conceal illicit arms traffic out of Cuba) had developed between British Guiana and Cuba. Investigations to date have been negative.

4. Control of Transfer of Funds

Department of State

Cooperated with the Foreign Assets Control Office of the Treasury Department in developing blocking controls with respect to Cuba which went into effect on July 9, 1963.

5. Strengthening of Counter-Insurgency Capabilities

Department of Defense

a. Continued the installation of military communications facilities in Latin America. Operational dates for the multi-channel radio stations to be installed in Managua, Nicaragua and Tegucigalpa, Honduras have been delayed to 15 October 1963 and 15 December 1963, respectively because of new engineering and contractual requirements. Negotiations are continuing with Colombia and Ecuador for installation of U.S. military radio facilities. Completion of a new commercial trans-isthmian cable in the Panama Canal Zone within the coming month is expected to improve military communications within the United States and the Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command.

b. Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U.S. Forces, reporting as before to U.S. commanders, organizations and agencies. Reports of surveillance have been disseminated to all who have a requirement to know.

c. Established a 24 hour per day, 7 day per week duty watch at the U.S. Military Groups in the Caribbean countries in conjunction with implementation of the military alerting system. Continued efforts to staff the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center with properly cleared, trained personnel (this center is the military focal point for relaying information concerning the movement of subversives). Filled, partially, the authorized billets in

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SECRET

-7-

the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center and took
under consideration the problem of an increase in the billet
structure in the Center. The Commander-in-Chief, U.S.
Southern Command together with his intelligence officer
visited Honduras and Nicaragua and determined that no
significant problems existed which would interfere with
effective operations in those countries.

d. Action previously initiated by the Commander,
U.S. Naval Forces, Southern Command (COMUSNAVSO) to establish
a Small Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT) as a
contribution to the Caribbean Surveillance System is progress-
ing satisfactorily. Permanent assignment of U.S. Coast Guard
personnel to SCIATT in the Canal Zone has been approved and
the U.S. Coast Guard has taken appropriate implementing
actions.

e. During the period of this report, the SCIATT con-
ducted an on-the-job training course at Puntarenas, Costa
Rica. Training was given to 13 members of the Guardia Civil
of Costa Rica who were either newly assigned to the 40 foot
Coast Guard utility boats (CGUBs) or were to be assigned as
replacement crew members.

f. A quarterly inspection and evaluation of the CGUBs
provided other Central American countries was conducted
during the period 17 to 31 August by a mobile training team
(MTT) made up of SCIATT personnel.

g. Continued efforts to improve the internal security
of Latin American armies through the provision of Intelligence
Advisors. Presently there are such advisors assigned to 14
Latin countries, emphasizing counterintelligence and counter-
subversion.

h. During the reporting period MTTs conducted train-
ing in counterinsurgency for the armed forces of Colombia,
Bolivia, Venezuela, Peru and El Salvador.

i. Civic Action MTTs were sent to Guatemala, Bolivia,
Colombia, El Salvador, Jamaica and Ecuador.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SECRET

-8-

## 6. Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Subversion

Central Intelligence Agency

CIA Stations throughout Latin America continued in a great majority of countries to furnish to the local internal security organizations with whom they are in liaison information concerning travelers to and from Cuba, as well as such information as came to CIA's attention concerning the movement of funds, arms and propaganda material. In many instances, the furnishing of information to the internal security service by the CIA Station was paralleled by the furnishing of similar information to the Foreign Office by the Ambassador or his representative. The response to this information has varied greatly. The Central American countries, in general, began to pay greater attention to the information and act on it. At the other extreme, the Brazilian Government during the reporting period showed little inclination to follow up on the information.

Department of State

a. Reiterated to the Foreign Minister of Peru our interest in having the facts of the Puerto Maldonado incident brought to the attention of the OAS, and urged that this action be taken as soon as possible.

b. Urged the Government of Guatemala to submit evidence of communist activity to the OAS.

## 7. Surveillance of Cuban Diplomatic, Commercial and Cultural Missions

Department of State

Instructed Embassy La Paz to follow up closely on charges of involvement by the Cuban mission in internal policies of Bolivia, and, at the Embassy's discretion, to point out to Bolivian officials the opportunity for a possible break in relations with Cuba. Embassy La Paz was not able to

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

SECRET

-9-

press for a break when the evidence of Cuban intervention did not prove to be as conclusive as originally reported.

8. Other Special Actions

Department of State

a. Obtained action by the COAS on July 3 on the Lavalle Committee Report transmitting the document to the governments and urging them to implement the specific and general recommendations contained therein as soon as possible.

b. Through Embassy Managua informed the Nicaraguan Government of the matters which we wanted to have considered during the informal meeting of the Ministers of Security and Interior of the Isthmian countries held in Managua, August 26-28 in preparation for the second formal meeting of the Managua Security Conference countries later this year.

c. Explained in detail the nature of the Cuban threat and the related policy objectives of the U.S., during conversation in London and in Washington with Mr. Adam Watson, newly appointed British Ambassador to Cuba.

United States Information Agency

a. The Agency's press service during the reporting period transmitted 12 articles, commentaries, and back- grounders on its wireless file service to USIA posts through- out Latin America for placement in the local newspapers and the Voice of America Spanish broadcasts to Latin America carried a total of 28 commentaries and features on the subject of Cuban-based subversion. These stories were designed to alert people in Latin America to the dangers of this subversion.

b. In response to standing Agency instructions to give special attention to developments related to Cuba-based subversion, USIA posts in Latin America were prompt in reporting incidents and in providing editorial comments from

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

SECRET

-10-

the Latin American-press, all of which was used in the Agency's radio and press output.

The main developments treated in the Agency's radio and press coverage included Castro's July 26 speech urging revolutions in Latin America, the discovery of terrorist weapons factories in Guayaquil, the Ecuadorean Vice President's accusation of Cuban responsibility for terrorism, the Cuban use of Grand Cayman as a way station for subversive elements from Cuba, the expulsion from the University of a Bolivian youth leader for receiving funds from Cuba, Castro-trained guerrillas in Honduras, and Bolivian protests against meddling by the Cuban Embassy in the miner's strike. A Voice of American roving reporter in Latin America provided several reports on the subversion picture in countries he visited.

c. In support of the Agency's effort on Cuban-based subversion, the publications center in Mexico began work on three pamphlets during the period based on Castro's report of his visit to the Soviet Union (showing that he contradicted himself in some of his extravagant claims of Soviet progress), the losses suffered by Cuban labor under Castro, and the fate of political prisoners in Cuba. When completed, these pamphlets will be reproduced and distributed in quantity throughout the area.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SECRET

ANNEX A

CIA Intelligence Annex

1. Travel to and from Cuba

Brazil

Chartered Cubana airlines flights between Cuba and Brazil have become a major means of transporting non-Cuban Latin Americans to and from Cuba. The five such flights since late July have carried nearly 400 non-Cubans.

The first of the recent series -- on 25 July -- brought 71 Latin American passengers to Havana for the 26 July celebrations. The other four flights -- on 15, 22, 28 and 29 August -- transported over 200 Latin Americans to Brazil from Havana. Some of the aircraft involved returned to Cuba with smaller numbers of passengers. Many of the 200 Latin American passengers had been delegates to the 26 July ceremonies, but others had apparently been in Cuba for longer periods and some had probably received training there. Of the passengers on these four flights to Brazil, 75 were natives of Caribbean area countries. Their circuitous travel through Brazil was evidently designed to help conceal the fact that they had been in Cuba

Costa Rica

Two Costa Ricans were among the passengers on a chartered Cubana plane which was turned back to Havana at Grand Cayman on 11 July 1963. One was Luz Marina Hernandez Salazar, the only Costa Rican woman known to have been sent to Cuba for training as a guerrilla warfare instructor. She had been in Cuba since September 1962. The other Costa Rican passenger was Carlos Guillen, former head of the Costa Rican Society of Friends of the Cuban Revolution, who had been in Cuba since November 1962.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SECRET
- 2 -

Ecuador

The CIA Station in Quito reports that the military junta, which assumed power in Ecuador on 11 July, can be expected to follow the guidance of the Embassy and the Station in controlling travel to and from Cuba and the Soviet bloc. The activities of Cuban subversives in Ecuador, at least for the present, have been greatly inhibited by the mass arrests of Communists and pro-Cubans and by the outlawing of the Communist Party by the junta.

Honduras

It is reported that the Honduran Communist Party has issued orders to its members not to attempt to travel to Cuba at the present time. This action is apparently the result of the increasing vigilance of the Honduran government and the greater implementation of stricter travel controls.

2. Movement of Cuban Propaganda

Guatemala

According to an unconfirmed report received in July, a Bureau of Information of the Communist Party of Guatemala is being formed in collaboration with Prensa Latina and is to be managed clandestinely. It expects to receive news by shortwave radio from Cuba and print bulletins for distribution by radio stations. This may indicate a pattern by which Prensa Latina will attempt to distribute on a more clandestine basis in other areas in Latin America.

Honduras

It was reliably reported that in mid-July 1963, a small coastal freighter landed 14 large boxes of Communist propaganda on the northern coast of Honduras, the boxes having been transferred at sea from a larger vessel. The report has not been confirmed.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

SECRET

3. Movement of Guerrillas and Arms

Argentina

Extremist members of the Peronist Party, apparently under the leadership of such figures as Hector Villalon and John William Cooke, were reported to be receiving encouragément and promises of large sums of money from Cuba in support of their efforts to train and organize subversive groups in Argentina. Villalon has stated that his plan calls for expanding and accellerating subversive activities in Argentina culminating in a complete take over within two years. There is no indica- tion that Peron himself has agreed to this plan. It has been reported that leaders of the Communist Party of Argentina have been greatly annoyed by the tendency of the Castro regime to support the revolutionary Peronists without having consulted the Communist Party of Argentina.

It is reported that the so-called Army of National Liberation (ANL) of Argentina, which is a relatively small Castroist organization directed from Cuba by John William Cooke, has in recent weeks been negotiating for the purchase of arms and has been offered submachine guns, bazookas and other weapons by two or three private suppliers. It was reported, however, that the ANL was having difficulty getting enough dollars from Cuba to make significant purchases possible.

Bolivia

The Bolivian Ministry of Foreign Relations on 23 August protested formally to the Cuban Chargé d'Affaires in La Paz against the Cuban Embassy support to the miners during the recent crisis. Subsequently, however, Foreign Minister Fellman informed the Cuban Chargé that he need not fear that the Government of Bolivia would break diplomatic relations with Cuba. There has, in fact, been no hard information linking the Cuban Embassy with the present mining crisis in spite of some unconfirmed reports of Cuban support.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

SECRET

Brazil

Cuban Ambassador to Brazil, Raul Roa Kouri, is reported to have attempted to encourage peasant league leader Francisco Julio to revitalize the leagues in northern Brazil. According to some reports efforts are being made to unify the leadership and bring dissident elements under the general direction of Juliao. Other reports indicate that, although the Cuban Embassy is providing guidance and possibly financial support to the movement, it had not yet resolved the internal dissension in the leagues.

Colombia

From Colombia reports have been received of increasing Cuban assistance, primarily in the form of training courses by instructors who have been trained in Cuba, to the Worker-Student-Peasant Movement (MOEC). A small guerrilla band encountered by the Colombian army in July 1963 was broken up when five members of the band were killed and two others captured. A small quantity of arms and a considerable amount of books and pamphlets on revolutionary warfare, photographs of Fidel Castro, Camilo Cienfuegos and Mao Tse-tung, and bulletins of the MOEC were found at the camp site. Recent reports have indicated an increase in the terrorist efforts of the MOEC and increased promises of assistance from Che Guevara with regard to the training of additional MOEC members.

Costa Rica

There have been a number of unconfirmed reports alleging small-scale training of revolutionaries on Costa Rican territory for guerrilla activity in Nicaragua. For example, in mid-July an increased number of guerrillas were reportedly being trained in Costa Rica by Adolfo Garcia Barberena, well-known Nicaraguan revolutionary leader and member of the FLN (National Liberation Front -- a Communist-dominated, Cuban-supported,

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

SECRET
- 5 -

anti-Nicaragua revolutionary group). In early August,
Alberto Serrato, leader of the FLN in Costa Rica,
(reportedly left with a group of Nicaraguans for the
Costa Rican-Nicaraguan border. Another report indicated
that Hector Bogantes Zamora, Costa Rican agitator was
supposed to have left San Jose in mid-August for the
Nicaraguan border to supervise the passage of Nicaraguan
guerrillas from Costa Rica into Nicaragua. Bogantes,
who recently returned from attending the May Day celebra-
tions in Cuba, is said to have been assigned this
responsibility by the Costa Rican Communist Party.

So far as we know, the GON, which is normally well-
informed and highly sensitive to such activities on its
borders, has not made any complaints or otherwise signified
concern or awareness of these reported activities.

### Honduras

The Honduran armed forces began to move against a
group of pro-Castro guerrillas operating against the
Nicaraguan Government and active in the vicinity of the
Nicaraguan-Honduran border. The Nicaraguan National Guard
has been conducting operations on its side of the border
against the insurgents since July. The dense jungle and
difficult terrain, however, will impede the efforts of
both forces to eliminate the guerrillas.

Information on the guerrilla force is scanty and
conflicting. It is apparently composed of members of the
National Liberation Front (FLN), a Communist-dominated
and Cuban-supported revolutionary organization active
primarily in Honduras and Nicaragua since the fall of
1962. The strength of the force is not known.

### Nicaragua

A captured guerrilla of the FLN (National Liberation
Front - a Communist-dominated, Cuban-supported, anti-
Nicaraguan group) confessed that he was a member of a
group of 46 who entered Nicaragua from Honduras on 22 July.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

SECRET
- 6 -

He said that their mission was to establish a base camp in the Isabella mountains, Department of Jinotega, in order to indoctrinate the peasants and to train them in guerrilla tactics. He admitted that he had received six months' guerrilla warfare training in Cuba and that other FLN leaders had received similar training. He also said that the FLN training camp in Honduras was near El Lagarto, on the Patuca River.

4. Transfer of Funds

British Guiana

In British Guiana, Guiana Import-Export Corporation (Gimpex) received a one million dollar advance payment deposited by the Cuban Alimpex Corporation for goods to be delivered to Cuba in the future. Gimpex has, in turn, loaned this money to the Government of British Guiana. Cheddi Jagan's People's Progressive Party is the major stockholder in Gimpex. Mohammed Kassim, Manager of Gimpex, has indicated that Gimpex will be able to secure additional loans from Cuba in amounts sufficient to tide the Jagan government over any foreseeable crisis. It was also reported that Gimpex plans to buy aircraft, spare parts and other machinery in the United States for reshipment to Cuba.

General

Reports continue to be received from many places indicating that the suitcase full of currency is still one of the most common methods used by the Cubans for trans-mitting funds for use in supporting subversive activities throughout the hemisphere. Instances where such funds have been confiscated by the police have occurred recently in El Salvador, Panama and Ecuador.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# ANNEX B

KNOWN TRAVEL OF LATIN AMERICANS TO AND FROM CUBA - JULY 1963

| NATIONALITY | TO  | FROM | PURPOSE OF TRIP TO CUBA                                       |
| ----------- | --- | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ARGENTINA   | 6   | 0    | 26th of July Celebrations                                     |
| BOLIVIA     | 14  | 0    | 26th of July Celebrations.                                    |
| BRAZIL      | 25  | 0    | 26th of July Celebrations.                                    |
| BR. GUIANA  | 0   | 0    |                                                               |
| CHILE       | 20  | 1    | 26th of July Celebrations.                                    |
| COLOMBIA    | 29  | 1    | 26th of July Celebrations. A returning Chilean Diplomat       |
| COSTA RICA  | 12  | 0    | 26th of July Celebrations.                                    |
| DOM. REP.   | 37  | 0    | 26th of July Celebrations                                     |
| ECUADOR     | 2   | 0    | 26th of July Celebrations.                                    |
| EL SALVADOR | 4   | 1    | 26th of July Celebrations.                                    |
| GUATEMALA   | 6   | 0    |                                                               |
| HAITI       | 0   | 0    |                                                               |
| HONDURAS    | 0   | 0    |                                                               |
| JAMAICA     | 33  | 1    |                                                               |
| MEXICO      | 65  | 28   | 30-Football team. 3-to 26th of July Celebrations              |
| NICARAGUA   | 5   | 0    | 26th of July Celebrations.                                    |
| PANAMA      | 15  | 0    | 26th of July Celebrations                                     |
| PARAGUAY    | 3   | 0    | 26th of July Celebrations                                     |
| PERU        | 4   | 0    |                                                               |
| TRINIDAD    | 0   | 0    |                                                               |
| URUGUAY     | 17  | 15   | 26th of July Celebrations. Most attending will remain to work |
| VENEZUELA   | 22  | 0    | 26th of July Celebrations                                     |
| TOTALS      | 319 | 47   |                                                               |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

KNOWN TRAVEL OF LATIN AMERICANS TO AND FROM CUBA - AUGUST 1963

| NATIONALITY | AUGUST TO | AUGUST FROM | PURPOSE OF TRIP TO CUBA                                                            |
| ----------- | --------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ARGENTINA   | 4         | 0           | 26th July Celebrations.                                                            |
| BOLIVIA     | 5         | 3           |                                                                                    |
| BRAZIL      | 0         | 24          | 22-Returning from 26th July Celebrations.                                          |
| BR. GUIANA  | 7         | 10          | Herder Institute in Leipzig.                                                       |
| CHILE       | 22        | 47          | 8-Physical Ed. Seminar - 1-Seeking funds - 10-Returning from 26 July Celebrations. |
| COLOMBIA    | 6         | 14          |                                                                                    |
| COSTA RICA  | 0         | 8           | 26th July Celebrations.                                                            |
| DOM. REP.   | 1         | 8           |                                                                                    |
| ECUADOR     | 0         | 2           |                                                                                    |
| EL SALVADOR | 1         | 0           |                                                                                    |
| GUATEMALA   | 3         | 0           | 1-Study at University of Sofia                                                     |
| HAITI       | 0         | 0           |                                                                                    |
| HONDURAS    | 0         | 8           |                                                                                    |
| JAMAICA     | 0         | 2           |                                                                                    |
| MEXICO      | 34        | 63          | 26th July Celebrations                                                             |
| NICARAGUA   | 0         | 0           |                                                                                    |
| PANAMA      | 6         | 0           | 26th July Celebrations                                                             |
| PARAGUAY    | 0         | 0           |                                                                                    |
| PERU        | 2         | 9           | 9-Returning were members of (MIR) who received guerrilla training.                 |
| TRINIDAD    | 0         | 0           |                                                                                    |
| URUGUAY     | 10        | 16          | 26th July Celebrations                                                             |
| VENEZUELA   | 3         | 0           | 26th July Celebrations                                                             |
| TOTALS      | 104       | 214         |                                                                                    |


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)