# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System
## Identification Form
Date: 6/24/201

## Agency Information
AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: 198-10007-10013
RECORD SERIES : CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

## Document Information
ORIGINATOR:
FROM:
TO:
TITLE: CONTROL OF TRAVEL TO AND FROM CUBA
DATE: 00/00/0000
PAGES: 17
SUBJECTS: CONTROL OF TRANSFER OF FUNDS
CONTROL OF MOVEMENT OF CUBAN PROPAGANDA
CONTROL OF CLANDESTINE MOVEMENT OF GUERRILLAS
AND ARMS
EXCHANGE OF INTELLIGENCE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION
SURVEILLANCE OF CUBAN DIPLOMATIC, COMMERCIAL
AND CULTURAL MISSIONS
STRENGTHENING OF COUNTER-INSURGENCY
CAPABILITIES
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/09/1998
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 4, Folder 6. Draft report concerning control of access to and surveillance of Cuba.

![signature and date of declassification request]

![Department of the Army EO 13526 Declassify Authority Refer To Exclude Exempt Review Date and signature]

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId:32424006 Page 1
22


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

DRAFT

SECRET

1. Control of Travel to and from Cuba

Central Intelligence Agency

a. Developed highly useful information on frequency of Cuban "chartered" flights to Brazil, names and nationalities of passengers and crew, and lax measures of control followed by Brazilian authorities. Transmitted this information to station chiefs in the Latin American countries of the non-Brasilians travelling on these flights.

b. Maintained close watch over travel to and from Cuba. See Annex B for table of known travel of Latin Americans during July and August.

c. As a result of information furnished by him by the CIA Station in Buenos Aires and with the Station's urging, the Argentine Minister of Interior indicated that he would make every effort to prevent Argentine delegates from attending the International Union of Architects Congress in Havana.

d. At the urging of the CIA Station and the Embassy the Bolivien Minister of Interior issued in mid-July an order prohibiting the granting of travel permits to Cuba on other bloc countries to Bolivian nationals.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
-2-

e. Partly as a result of the efforts of the CIA
station in Santiago, the Government of Chile prohibited the
entry into Chile of organizers of the Cuban sponsored Second
Latin American Youth Congress, which had been scheduled to take
place in Santiago in August. This was one of the factors which
led to postponement of theCongress.

f. After considerable prodding by the CIA Station
and the Embassy the Minister of Public Security of Costa Rica
has presented legislative proposals to the Costa Rican Assembly
which will require all persons intending to travel to Communist
countries to have their travel approved by a newly created
Costa Rican security agency.

g. CIA Station in Mexico City developed information
concerning the clandestine arrival of passengers in Vera Crua
on Cuban merchant ships. Efforts are being made to obtain more
information and to encourage stricter controls by the Nexican
authorities.

Department of State

a. Instructed Embassy Conakry to try to persuade
Guinean authorities to deny use of airport facilities by flights
on Habana-Moscon route. These efforts achieved a temporary
withholding of permission for future regular flighte, at least


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

-3-

until such time as the Soviets develop their own refueling facilities at Conakry.

b. Instructed Embassy Rio to approach Brazilian authorities to express our deep concern at the growing frequency of Cuban non-scheduled flights to Brazil and request their cooperation in curbing then. Also instructed our Embassies in several Latin American countries to work with CIA station chiefs in furnishing the names of nationals of those countries travelling on these flights to local authorities and urging then: (1) to institute tighter controle on their own citizens travelling to Cuba, and (2) to express their concern to the Brazil'Over Cuban use of Brazil as a way station
LAN GOVERNMENT

for transporting subversives.

c. As a result of representacions made to the British government about Cuban flights to the Cayman Islands carrying Latin American subversives, the British developed an administrative scheme which will effectively prohibit the use of British Caribbean dependencies by Cubana as transit points for passengers..
The British intend to require transit visas of passengers passing through their areas, and to reject applications for such visas except in certain special cases. Persons not possessing visas would be prevented from leaving their aircraft, or would be


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

returned to their point of origin.

d. Instructed Embassy Mexico City on August 29 to inform the Hexican airline QA that the United States is opposed to a proposal that CMA operate charter flights to carry refugees from Havana to Central America. 24, as a result, stated that they had no intention of proceeding further with this project.

e. Instructed U.S. Nissions in Curaces and the la gue to investigate a report that KIM was planning to renew eb scheduled Curacao-Habana flights and to reiterate US opposition to resumption of air service to Cuba, KIM assured our Embassy that there is no plan to initiate service, scheduled or non-scheduled, co Habans.

f. Instructed Embassy Ottava to express our strong objections to a proposal that a Cubang charter flight pick up a second group of U.S. students in Montreal to fly then to Cuba, The flight was not authorized.

g. Instructed Consulate Georgetown to investigato Cubang approaches to secure flight facilities. Mesion reported on August 1 that the Governor bad no knowledge of any talks between the B.G. Ministry of Communications and the Cuban Govern-ment regarding landing rights for Cubens planes. The Covernor


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET
-5-

Indicated his intention to inquire further and to keep us advised. London reported that neither the Cuban nor the British Guiana Governments had raised the issue of landing rights with H.M.G.

h. Urged the governments of Mexico, Canada, Jamaica and the Netherlands to refuse to assist the Cuban government in its efforts to find a short route for return of the 30 American students who illegally travelled to Cuba. Also informed Pan American Airways that we were opposed to a Cuban request for a PAA charter flight to fly the students from Habana to New York.

i. Instructed our missions at Port of Spain and Barbados on several occasions to approach these governments to express the concern of the U.S. at indications of Cuban interest in the use of their aviation facilities.

Embassy Port of Spain discussed with the Foreign Secretary of Trinidad various legal moves available that would enable COTT to control movements of aircraft within their territory, citing examples of such controls instituted by Mexico, Canada and Ireland. He indicated receptiveness to the proposal that the list of suggestions be made available to the aviation officials concerned.

j. During a previous reporting period Embassy Santiago

NW 50955 DocId:32424006 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

urged the government of Chile to refuse visas to Cuban delegatës
to a preparatory meeting planning for the II Latin Americon
Youth Congress scheduled for August in the Chilean capital.
Inability of Cuban delegates to obtain Chilean visas for this
meeting is one of the contributing factors to the Cuban sponsors
announcing during August that the meeting had been postponed.

k. Sent general instructions to our missions in countries
which participate in the Intematioml Union of Architects asking
then to urge the cooperation of governmental authorities in
preventing or discouraging the attendance of their citizens to
the VII VIA Congress in Habana, September 29-October 4, 1963.
Followed this up with instructions to individual posts to try
where feasible to dissuade architects from free world countries
from serving on the jury for the selection of a Bay of Figs
momsient.

1. Urged Canadian Government to block a plan to
   commence food parcel shipments to Cuba, on a Comercial basis,
   that would have required the establishment of scheduled weekly
   charter flights by Canadian planes.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

2. Control of Movement of Cuban Propaganda

Central Intelligence Agency

Responding to the urging of the CIA Station police of the State of Guanabara seized large quantities of propaganda brought into Brazil by passengers on the special Cubana flights. For example, some 50 pounds of printed propaganda was taken from the various passengers who arrived on the 16 August Cubana flight.

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms

Department of Defense

a. Continued surveillance of the area surrounding Cuba during the month of July at the same rate and with the same emphasis as prior to 1 July 1963.

b. Continued to maintain U.S. Forces, primarily from within the Atlantic Command, available to assist other Caribbean governments in the interception of suspicious craft in territorial waters, as might be requested. No such requests were received from any other government during the period covered by this report. However, U.S. Forces did keep track of the location of the Soviet merchant freighter MITCHURINSK, which


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

was suspected of carrying subversives and arms from Cuba to
British Guiana in mid-July. MITCHURINSK was under U.8.
surveillance from its departure fron Havane until United
Kingdom forces assumed the task of keeping this ship under
surveillance upon its approach to Georgetown, British Gulana.
Subsequently, British police search of MITCHURINSK in British
Gulane vaters revealed nothing of a suspicious nature.

Central Intelligence Agency

At the repeated urging of the CIA Station in Lima
the Peruvian Government late in August published a new anti-
terrorists lav providing a penalty of no less than five years
imprisonment for persons who particiate in guerrilla activities
or in the illegal manufacture of weapons or explosives.

The Peruvian National Intelligence Service is working
on a lead furnished by the CIA Station in Lina concerning a
200 ton vessel reportedly involved in arme traffic.

Department of State

Instructed our Consulate General in Georgetown to
investigate reports that commercial cargoes (which could conceal
illicit arms traffic out of Cuba) bad developed between British
Guiana and Cuba. Investigations to date have been negative.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

4. Control of Transfer of Funds

Department of State

Cooperated with the Foreign Assets Control Office of the Treasury Department in developing blocking controls with respect to Cuba which went into effect on July 9, 1963.

5. Strengthening of Counter-Insurgency Capabilities

Department of Defence

a. Continued the installation of military communications facilities in Latin America. Operational dates for the multi-channel radio stations to be installed in Managua, Nicaragua and Tegucigalpa, Honduras have been delayed to 15 October 1963 and 15 December 1963, respectively because of new engineering and contractual requirements. Negotiations are continuing with Colombia and Ecuador for installation of U.S. military radio facilities. Completion of a new commercial trans-isthmian cable in the Panama Canal Zone within the coming month is expected to improve military communications within the United States and the Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command.

b. Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U.S. Forces, reporting as before to U.S. commanders, organizations and agencies.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

-10-

Reports of surveillance have been disseminated to all who have a requirement to know.

c. Established a 24 hour per day, 7 days per week duty watch at the U.S. Military Groups in the Caribbean countries in conjunction with implementation of the military alerting system. Continued efforts to staff the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center with properly cleared, trained personnel (this center is the military focal point for relaying information concerning the movement of subversives). Filled, partially, the authorized billets in the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center and took under consideration the problem of an increase in the billet structure in the Center. The Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command together with his intelligence officer visited Honduras and Nicaragua and determined that no significant problems existed which would interfere with effective operations in those countries.

d. Action previously initiated by the Commander, U.S. Naval Forces, Southern Command (COMUSNAVSO) to establish a Small Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT) as a contribution to the Caribbean Surveillance System is progressing satisfactorily.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

-11-

Permanent assignment of U.S. Coast Guard personnel to SCIATT
in the Canal Zone has been approved and the U.S. Coast Guard
has taken appropriate implementing actions.

e. During the period of this report, the SCIATT con-
ducted en on-the-job training course at Puntarenes, Costa
Rica. Training was given to 13 members of the Guardia Civil
of Costa Rica who were either newly assigned to the 40 foot
Coast Guard utility boats (CGUBe) or ware to be assigned as
replacement crew members.

f. A quarterly inspection and evaluation of the CGUBS
provided other Central American countries was conducted during
the period 17 to 31 August by a mobile training tean (MTT)
nade up of SCIATT personel.

g. Continued efforts to improve the internal security
of Latin American armies through the provision of Intelligence
Advisors. Presently there are such advisora assigned to 14
Latin countries, emphasizing counterintelligence and counter-
subversion.

h. During the reporting period MTTs conducted training
in counterinsurgency for the armed forces of Colombia, Bolivie,
Venezuela, Peru and El Salvador.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

-12-

1. Civic Action MITs were sent to Guatemala, Bolivia,
   Colombia, El Salvador, Jamaica and Ecuador.

2. Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Subversion

Central Intelligence Agency

CIA Stations throughout Latin America continued in a
great majority of countries to furnish to the local internal
security organizations with whom they are in liaison informa-
tion concerning travelers to and from Cuba, as well as such
information as came to CIA's attention concerning the movement
of funds, arms and propaganda material. In many instances, the
furnishing of information to the internal security service by
the CIA Station was paralleled by the furnishing of similar
information to the foreign office by the Ambassador or his
representative. The response to this information has varied
greatly. The Central American countries, in general, began to
pay attention to the information and take action on it. At the
other extreme, the Brazilian Government/showed little inclination during the reporting period
to follow up on the information.

Department of State

a. Reiterated to the Foreign Minister of Perú our
interest in having the facts of the Puerto Maldonado incident

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32424006 Page 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

-13-

brought to the attention of the OAS, and urged that this action be taken as soon as possible.

b. Urged the Government of Guatemala to submit evidence of communist activity to the OAS.

7. Surveillance of Cuban Diplomatic, Commercial and Cultural Missions.

Central Intelligence Agency

(To be filled in by Mr. Wheeler)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

-14-

Department of State

Instructed Embassy La Pas to follow up closely on charges of involvement of Cuban mission in internal politics of Bolivia, and, at the Embassy's discretion, to point out to Bolivien officials the opportunity for a possible bresk in relations with Cuba. Embassy Le Paz was not able to press for a break when the evidence of Cuban intervention did not prove to be as conclusiva as originally reported.

S. Other Speciel Actions

Department of State

a. Obtained sction by the COAS on July 3 on the Lavalle Committee Report trensmitting the document to the governmente and urging them to implement the specific and general recommendations contained therein as soon as possible.

b. Through Embassy Managua informed the Nicaraguan Government of the matters which we wanted to have considered during the informal meeting of the Ministers of Security and Interior of the Isthmian countries held in Managua, August 26-28 in preparation for the second formal meeting of the Managua Security Conference countries later this year.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

-15-

c. Reassured President Schick of Nicaragua in the most esphatic terms that the Nuclear Test Ban Trenty did not mean that our attitude toward Castro has altered in the slightesst, and stressed our interest in seeing steady progress by all the Isthmion countries in implementing the recommendations of the Managua Security Conference to block Cuban subversive efforts.

d. Explained in detail the nature of the Cuban threat and the related policy objectives of the U.S., during conversation in London and in Washington with Mr. Adam Watson, newly appointed British Ambassador to Cuba.

United States Information Agency

a. The Agency's press service during the reporting period transmitted 12 articles, commentaries, and backgrounders on its wireless file service to USIA posts throughout Latin America for placement in the local newspapers and the Voice of America Spanish broadcasts to Latin America carried a total of 26 commentaries and features on the subject of Cuban-based subversion in addition to the regular reporting of developments in the hourly newscasts.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

-16-

b. In response to standing Agency instructions to give special attention to developments related to Cuba-based subversion, USIS posts in Latin America were prompt in reporting incidents and in providing editorial comments from the Latin American press, all of which was used in the Agency's radio and press output.

The main developments treated in the Agency's radio and press coverage included Castro's July 26 speech urging revolutions in Latin America, the discovery of terrorist weapons factories in Guayaquil, the Ecuadorean Vice President's accusion of Cuban responsibility for terrorism, the statement by State Department Press Officer Richard Phillips that "potential subversive agents" from Cuba to the Caribbean area were passing through Gran Caymen, the expulsion of a Bolivian youth leader for receiving funds fron Cuba, Castro-trained terrorists in and Honduras,/Bolivian protests against weddling by the Coben Embassy in the miner's strike. A Voice of America roving reporter in Latin America provided several reports eiztunzica on the Gubversion picture in countries he visited.

c. Ia support of the Agency's effort on Cuban-based subversion, the publications center in Mexico began work on

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

-17-

three pamphlets during the period based on Castro's report of
his visit to the Soviet Union (showing that he contradicted
himself in some of his extravagant claims of Soviet progress),
the losses suffered by Cuban labor under Castro, and the fate
of political prisoners in Cuba. When completed, these pamphlets
will be reproduced and distributed in quantity throughout the
area.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)