# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 6/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER: 198-10008-10119

RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY

FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.

TO: CAPT. ZUMWALT ET AL

TITLE: ICCCA: ACTIONS TAKEN DURING JULY-AUGUST 1963 IN CURBING CUBAN SUBVERSION

DATE: 10/14/1963

PAGES: 20

SUBJECTS: COUNTERSUBVERSION PROGRAM

TRAVEL OF LATIN AMERICANS TO CUBA

CUBAN SUBVERSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 25. Memo No. 71 from Joseph Califano with attached report of
Subcommittee on Subversion.

> [Figure] JFK Review stamp, Department of the Army E0 13326. Declassify, Exclude, Exempt Authority. Refer To. Review Date 19AU615 Bудес та

> [Figure] NO STATE OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION BY DATE 1/15/16

v9.1

NW 50955 DocId:32424608 Page 1

8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

14 OCT 1963

MEMORANDUM NO. 71 FOR CAPTAIN E. R. ZUMWALT, JR., USN (OSD)
MAJOR GENERAL J. D. ALGER, USA
REAR ADMIRAL W. WENDT, USN
MAJOR GENERAL J. W. CARPENTER, III, USAF
BRIGADIER GENERAL W. K. JONES, USMC

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:
Actions Taken During July-August 1963 in Curbing Cuban
Subversion in Latin America

Attached is the final report of the Subcommittee on Subversion on
Actions Taken During July-August 1963 in Curbing Cuban Subversion in
Latin America.

Signed
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.

Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel

Attachment
As Stated

cc: Mr. Yarmolinsky (OSD)
DIA (Col Nigra)
Mr. Califano
Mt Col Haig
ASG

![signature] 23866

SECRET
REGRADED UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED
FROM CLASSIFIED INCLOSURES

NW 50955 DocId:32424608 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

File

This document consists of 18 pages
No 13 of 44 Copies, Series A

# REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION:

## ACTIONS TAKEN DURING JULY-AUGUST 1963

### IN CURBING CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

SECRET

DSA, ASG Control No.23866

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

NW 50955 DocId:32424608 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

# 1. Control of Travel to and from Cuba

## Central Intelligence Agency

a. Developed highly useful information on frequency of Cuban "chartered" flights to Brazil, names and nationalities of passengers and crew, and lax measures of control followed by Brazilian authorities. Transmitted this information to station chiefs in the Latin American countries of the non-Brazilians travelling on those flights.

b. Maintained close watch over travel to and from Cuba. See Annex B for table of known travel of Latin Americans during July and August.

c. As a result of information furnished to him by the CIA Station in Buenos Aires and with the Station's urging, the Argentine Minister of Interior indicated that he would make every effort to prevent Argentine delegates from attending the International Union of Architects Congress in Havana.

d. At the urging of the CIA Station and the Embassy, the Bolivian Minister of Interior issued in mid-July an order prohibiting the granting of travel permits to Cuba or other bloc countries to Bolivian nationals.

e. Partly as a result of the efforts of the CIA station in Santiago, the Government of Chile prohibited the entry into Chile of organizers of the Cuban-sponsored Second Latin American Youth Congress, which had been scheduled to take place in Santiago in August. This was one of the factors which led to postponement of the Congress.

f. After considerable prodding by the CIA Station and the Embassy the Minister of Public Security of Costa Rica presented legislative proposals to the Costa Rican Assembly which will require all persons intending to travel to Communist countries to have their travel approved by a newly created Costa Rican security agency.

g. CIA Station in Mexico City developed information concerning the clandestine arrival of passengers in Vera Cruz

GROUP 1

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

-2-

on Cuban merchant ships. Efforts are being made to obtain
more information and to encourage stricter controls by the
Mexican authorities.

Department of State

a. Instructed Embassy Conakry to try to persuade
Guinean authorities to deny use of airport facilities by
flights on Habana-Moscow route. These efforts achieved a
temporary withholding of permission for future regular flights,
at least until such time as the Soviets develop their own
refueling facilities at Conakry.

b. Instructed Embassy Rio to approach Brazilian
authorities to express our deep concern at the growing
frequency of Cuban non-scheduled flights to Brazil and request
their cooperation in curbing them. Also instructed our
Embassies in several Latin American countries to work with CIA
station chiefs in furnishing the names of nationals of those
countries travelling on these flights to local authorities
and urging them: (1) to institute tighter controls on their
own citizens travelling to Cuba, and (2) to express their
concern to the Brazilian Government over Cuban use of Brazil
as a way station for transporting subversives.

c. As a result of representations made to the
British Government about Cuban flights to the Cayman Islands
carrying Latin American subversives, the British developed
an administrative scheme which will effectively prohibit the
use of British Caribbean dependencies by *Cubana* as transit
points for passengers. The British intend to require transit
visas of passengers passing through their areas, and to
reject applications for such visas except in certain special
cases. Persons not possessing visas would be prevented from
leaving their aircraft, or would be returned to their point
of origin.

d. Instructed Embassy Mexico City on August 29 to
inform the Mexican airline CMA that the United States is
opposed to a proposal that CMA operate charter flights to

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

-3-

carry refugees from Habana to Central America. CMA, as a
result, stated that they had no intention of proceeding
further with this project.

e. Instructed our missions in Curacao and the Hague
to investigate a report that KLM was planning to renew
scheduled Curacao-Habana flights and to reiterate US
opposition to resumption of air service to Cuba. KLM assured
our Embassy that there is no plan to initiate service,
scheduled or non-scheduled, to Habana.

f. Instructed Embassy Ottawa to express our strong
objections to a proposal that a *Cubana* charter flight pick
up a second group of U.S. students in Montreal to fly them
to Cuba. The flight was not authorized.

g. Instructed Consulate Georgetown to investigate
*Cubana* approaches to secure flight facilities. Mission
reported on August 1 that the Governor bed no knowledge of
any talks between the B.G. Ministry of Communications and
the Cuban Government regarding landing rights for *Cubana*
planes. The Governor indicated his intention to inquire
further and to keep us advised. London reported that neither
the Cuban nor the British Guiana Governments had raised the
issue of landing rights with H.M.G.

h. Urged the governments of Mexico, Canada, Jamaica
and the Netherlands to refuse to assist the Cuban Government
in its efforts to find a short route for return of the 58
American students who illegally travelled to Cuba. Also
informed Pan American Airways that we were opposed to a Cuban
request for a PAA charter flight to fly the students from
Habana to New York.

i. Instructed our missions at Port of Spain and
Barbados on several occasions to approach these governments
to express the concern of the U.S. at indications of Cuban
interest in the use of their aviation facilities.

Embassy Port of Spain discussed with the Foreign Secretary
of Trinidad various legal moves available that would enable

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

-4-

GOTT to control movements of aircraft within their territory,
citing examples of such controls instituted by Mexico, Canada
and Ireland. He indicated receptiveness to the proposal that
the list of suggestions be made available to the aviation
officials concerned.

j. During a previous reporting period Embassy
Santiago urged the government of Chile to refuse visas to
Cuban delegated to a preparatory meeting for the II Latin
American Youth Congress scheduled for August in the Chilean
capital. Inability of Cuban delegates to obtain Chilean
visas for this meeting is one of the contributing factors to
the Cuban sponsors announcing during August that the meeting
had been postponed.

k. Sent general instructions to our missions in
countries which participate in the International Union of
Architects asking them to urge the cooperation of governmental
authorities in preventing or discouraging the attendance of
their nationals to the VII UIA Congress in Habana, September
29 October 4, 1963. Followed this up with instructions to
individual posts to try where feasible to dissuade
architects from free world countries from serving on the jury
for the selection of a Bay of Pigs monument.

1. Urged Canadian Government to block a plan to
   commence food parcel shipments to Cuba on a commercial basis
   that would have required the establishment of scheduled
   weekly charter flights by Canadian planes.

2. Control of Movement of Cuban Propaganda

Central Intelligence Agency

Responding to the urging of the CIA Station, police
of the State of Guanabara seized large quantities of
propaganda brought into Brazil by passengers on the special
Cubana flights. For example, some 50 pounds of printed
propaganda was taken from the various passengers who arrived
on the 16 August Cubana flight.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

-5-

3. Control of Clandestine Movement of Guerrillas and Arms

Department of Defense

a. Continued surveillance of the area surrounding Cuba during the months of July and August at the same rate and with the same emphasis as prior to 1 July 1963.

b. Continued to maintain U.S. Forces, primarily from within the Atlantic Command, available to assist other Caribbean governments in the interception of suspicious craft in territorial waters, as might be requested. No such requests were received from any other government during the period covered by this report. However, U.S. Forces did keep track of the location of the Soviet merchant freighter MITCHURINSK, which was suspected of carrying subversives and arms from Cuba to British Guiana in mid-July. MITCHURINSK was under U.S. surveillance from its departure from Habana until United Kingdom forces assumed the task of keeping this ship under surveillance upon its approach to Georgetown, British Guiana. Subsequently, British police search of MITCHURINSK in British Guiana waters revealed nothing of a suspicious nature.

Central Intelligence Agency

At the repeated urging of the CIA Station in Lima, the Peruvian Government late in August published a new anti-terrorists law providing a penalty of no less than five years imprisonment for persons who participate in guerrilla activities or in the illegal manufacture of weapons or explosives.

The Peruvian National Intelligence Service is working on a lead furnished by the CIA Station in Lima concerning a 200 ton vessel reportedly involved in arms traffic.

Department of State

Instructed our Consulate General in Georgetown to investigate reports that commercial cargoes (which could

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

-6-

conceal illicit arms traffic out of Cuba) had developed between British Guiana and Cuba. Investigations to date have been negative.

4. Control of Transfer of Funds

Department of State

Cooperated with the Foreign Assets Control Office of the Treasury Department in developing blocking controls with respect to Cuba which went into effect on July 9, 1963.

5. Strengthening of Counter-Insurgency Capabilities

Department of Defense

a. Continued the installation of military communications facilities in Latin America. Operational dates for the multi-channel radio stations to be installed in Managua, Nicaragua and Tegucigalpa, Honduras have been delayed to 15 October 1963 and 15 December 1963, respectively because of new engineering and contractual requirements. Negotiations are continuing with Colombia and Ecuador for installation of U.S. military radio facilities. Completion of a new commercial trans-isthmian cable in the Panama Canal Zone within the coming month is expected to improve military communications within the United States and the Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command.

b. Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U.S. Forces, reporting as before to U.S. commanders, organizations and agencies. Reports of surveillance have been disseminated to all who have a requirement to know.

c. Established a 24 hour per day, 7 day per week duty watch at the U.S. Military Groups in the Caribbean countries in conjunction with implementation of the military alerting system. Continued efforts to staff the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center with properly cleared, trained personnel (this center is the military focal point for relaying information concerning the movement of subversives). Filled, partially, the authorized billets in

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

-7-

the U.S. Southern Command Intelligence Center and took under consideration the problem of an increase in the billet structure in the Center. The Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Southern Command together with his intelligence officer visited Honduras and Nicaragua and determined that no significant problems existed which would interfere with effective operations in those countries.

d. Action previously initiated by the Commander, U.S. Naval Forces, Southern Command (COMUSNAVSO) to establish a Small Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT) as a contribution to the Caribbean Surveillance System is progressing satisfactorily. Permanent assignment of U.S. Coast Guard personnel to SCIATT in the Canal Zone has been approved and the U.S. Coast Guard has taken appropriate implementing actions.

e. During the period of this report, the SCIATT conducted an on-the-job training course at Puntarenas, Costa Rica. Training was given to 13 members of the Guardia Civil of Costa Rica who were either newly assigned to the 40 foot Coast Guard utility boats (CGUBs) or were to be assigned as replacement crew members.

f. A quarterly inspection and evaluation of the CGUBs provided other Central American countries was conducted during the period 17 to 31 August by a mobile training team (MTT) made up of SCIATT personnel.

g. Continued efforts to improve the internal security of Latin American armies through the provision of Intelligence Advisors. Presently there are such advisors assigned to 14 Latin countries, emphasizing counterintelligence and counter- subversion.

h. During the reporting period MTTS conducted training in counterinsurgency for the armed forces of Colombia, Bolivia, Venezuela, Peru and El Salvador.

i. Civic Action MTTs were sent to Guatemala, Bolivia, Colombia, El Salvador, Jamaica and Ecuador.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

-8-

6. Exchange of Intelligence on Cuban Subversion

Central Intelligence Agency

CIA Stations throughout Latin America continued in a great majority of countries to furnish to the local internal security organizations with whom they are in liaison information concerning travelers to and from Cuba, as well as such information as came to CIA's attention concerning the movement of funds, arms and propaganda material. In many instances, the furnishing of information to the internal security service by the CIA Station was paralleled by the furnishing of similar information to the Foreign Office by the Ambassador or his representative. The response to this information has varied greatly. The Central American countries, in general, began to pay greater attention to the information and act on it. At the other extreme, the Brazilian Government during the reporting period showed little inclination to follow up on the information.

Department of State

a. Reiterated to the Foreign Minister of Peru our interest in having the facts of the Puerto Maldonado incident brought to the attention of the OAS, and urged that this action be taken as soon as possible.

b. Urged the Government of Guatemala to submit evidence of communist activity to the OAS.

7. Surveillance of Cuban Diplomatic, Commercial and Cultural Missions

Department of State

Instructed Embassy La Paz to follow up closely on charges of involvement by the Cuban mission in internal policies of Bolivia, and, at the Embassy's discretion, to point out to Bolivian officials the opportunity for a possible break in relations with Cuba. Embassy La Paz was not able to

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

-9-

press for a break when the evidence of Cuban intervention
did not prove to be as conclusive as originally reported.

8. Other Special Actions

Department of State

a. Obtained action by the COAS on July 3 on the
Lavalle Committee Report transmitting the document to the
governments and urging them to implement the specific and
general recommendations contained therein as soon as
possible.

b. Through Embassy Managua informed the Nicaraguan
Government of the matters which we wanted to have considered
during the informal meeting of the Ministers of Security and
Interior of the Isthmian countries held in Managua, August
26-28 in preparation for the second formal meeting of the
Managua Security Conference countries later this year.

c. Explained in detail the nature of the Cuban
threat and the related policy objectives of the U.S., during
conversation in London and in Washington with Mr. Adam Watson,
newly appointed British Ambassador to Cuba.

United States Information Agency

a. The Agency's press service during the reporting
period transmitted 12 articles, commentaries, and back-
grounders on its wireless file service to USIA posts through-
out Latin America for placement in the local newspapers and
the Voice of America Spanish broadcasts to Latin America
carried a total of 28 commentaries and features on the subject
of Cuban-based subversion. These stories were designed to
alert people in Latin America to the dangers of this
subversion.

b. In response to standing Agency instructions to
give special attention to developments related to Cuba-based
subversion, USIA posts in Latin America were prompt in
reporting incidents and in providing editorial comments from

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

-10-

the Latin American press, all of which was used in the
Agency's radio and press output.

The main developments treated in the Agency's radio
and press coverage included Castro's July 26 speech urging
revolutions in Latin America, the discovery of terrorist
weapons factories in Guayaquil, the Ecuadorean Vice
President's accusation of Cuban responsibility for terrorism,
the Cuban use of Grand Cayman as a way station for subversive
elements from Cuba, the expulsion from the University of a
Bolivian youth leader for receiving funds from Cuba,
Castro-trained guerrillas in Honduras, and Bolivian protests
against meddling by the Cuban Embassy in the miner's strike.
A Voice of American roving reporter in Latin America
provided several reports on the subversion picture in coun-
tries he visited.

c. In support of the Agency's effort on Cuban-based
subversion, the publications center in Mexico began work on
three pamphlets during the period based on Castro's report
of his visit to the Soviet Union (showing that he contradicted
himself in some of his extravagant claims of Soviet progress),
the losses suffered by Cuban labor under Castro, and the
fate of political prisoners in Cuba. When completed, these
pamphlets will be reproduced and distributed in quantity
throughout the area.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

ANNEX A

CIA Intelligence Annex

1. Travel to and from Cuba

Brazil

Chartered Cubana airlines flights between Cuba and Brazil have become a major means of transporting non-Cuban Latin Americans to and from Cuba. The five such flights since late July have carried nearly 400 non-Cubans.

The first of the recent series -- on 25 July -- brought 71 Latin American passengers to Havana for the 26 July celebrations. The other four flights -- on 15, 22, 28 and 29 August -- transported over 200 Latin Americans to Brazil from Havana. Some of the aircraft involved returned to Cuba with smaller numbers of passengers. Many of the 200 Latin American passengers had been delegates to the 26 July ceremonies, but others had apparently been in Cuba for longer periods and some had probably received training there. Of the passengers on these four flights to Brazil, 75 were natives of Caribbean area countries. Their circuitous travel through Brazil was evidently designed to help conceal the fact that they had been in Cuba.

Costa Rica

Two Costa Ricans were among the passengers on a chartered Cubana plane which was turned back to Havana at Grand Cayman on 11 July 1963. One was Luz Marina Hernandez Salazar, the only Costa Rican woman known to have been sent to Cuba for training as a guerrilla warfare instructor. She had been in Cuba since September 1962. The other Costa Rican passenger was Carlos Guillen, former head of the Costa Rican Society of Friends of the Cuban Revolution, who had been in Cuba since November 1962.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET
- 2 -

## Ecuador

The CIA Station in Quito reports that the military junta, which assumed power in Ecuador on 11 July, can be expected to follow the guidance of the Embassy and the Station in controlling travel to and from Cuba and the Soviet bloc. The activities of Cuban subversives in Ecuador, at least for the present, have been greatly inhibited by the mass arrests of Communists and pro-Cubans and by the outlawing of the Communist Party by the junta.

## Honduras

It is reported that the Honduran Communist Party has issued orders to its members not to attempt to travel to Cuba at the present time. This action is apparently the result of the increasing vigilance of the Honduran government and the greater implementation of stricter travel controls.

2. Movement of Cuban Propaganda

### Guatemala

According to an unconfirmed report received in July, a Bureau of Information of the Communist Party of Guatemala is being formed in collaboration with *Prensa Latina* and is to be managed clandestinely. It expects to receive news by shortwave radio from Cuba and print bulletins for distribution by radio stations. This may indicate a pattern by which *Prensa Latina* will attempt to distribute on a more clandestine basis in other areas in Latin America.

### Honduras

It was reliably reported that in mid-July 1963, a small coastal freighter landed 14 large boxes of Communist propaganda on the northern coast of Honduras, the boxes having been transferred at sea from a larger vessel. The report has not been confirmed.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

3. Movement of Guerrillas and Arms

Argentina

Extremist members of the Peronist Party, apparently under the leadership of such figures as Hector Villalon and John William Cooke, were reported to be receiving encouragément and promises of large sums of money from Cuba in support of their efforts to train and organize subversive groups in Argentina. Villalon has stated that his plan calls for expanding and accellerating subversive activities in Argentina culminating in a complete take over within two years. There is no indica- tion that Peron himself has agreed to this plan. It has been reported that leaders of the Communist Party of Argentina have been greatly annoyed by the tendency of the Castro regime to support the revolutionary Peronists without having consulted the Communist Party of Argentina.

It is reported that the so-called Army of National Liberation (ANL) of Argentina, which is a relatively small Castroist organization directed from Cuba by John William Cooke, has in recent weeks been negotiating for the purchase of arms and has been offered submachine guns, bazookas and other weapons by two or three private suppliers. It was reported, however, that the ANL was having difficulty getting enough dollars from Cuba to make significant purchases possible.

Bolivia

The Bolivian Ministry of Foreign Relations on 23 August protested formally to the Cuban Chargé d'Affaires in La Paz against the Cuban Embassy support to the miners during the recent crisis. Subsequently, however, Foreign Minister Fellman informed the Cuban Chargé that he need not fear that the Government of Bolivia would break diplomatic relations with Cuba. There has, in fact, been no hard information linking the Cuban Embassy with the present mining crisis in spite of some unconfirmed reports of Cuban support.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

- 4 -

## Brazil

Cuban Ambassador to Brazil, Raul Roa Kouri, is reported to have attempted to encourage peasant league leader Francisco Julio to revitalize the leagues in northern Brazil. According to some reports efforts are being made to unify the leadership and bring dissident elements under the general direction of Juliao. Other reports indicate that, although the Cuban Embassy is providing guidance and possibly financial support to the movement, it had not yet resolved the internal dissension in the leagues.

## Colombia

From Colombia reports have been received of increasing Cuban assistance, primarily in the form of training courses by instructors who have been trained in Cuba, to the Worker-Student-Peasant Movement (MOEC). A small guerrilla band encountered by the Colombian army in July 1963 was broken up when five members of the band were killed and two others captured. A small quantity of arms and a considerable amount of books and pamphlets on revolutionary warfare, photographs of Fidel Castro, Camilo Cienfuegos and Mao Tse-tung, and bulletins of the MOEC were found at the camp site. Recent reports have indicated an increase in the terrorist efforts of the MOEC and increased promises of assistance from Che Guevara with regard to the training of additional MOEC members.

## Costa Rica

There have been a number of unconfirmed reports alleging small-scale training of revolutionaries on Costa Rican territory for guerrilla activity in Nicaragua. For example, in mid-July an increased number of guerrillas were reportedly being trained in Costa Rica by Adolfo Garcia Barberena, well-known Nicaraguan revolutionary leader and member of the FLN (National Liberation Front -- a Communist-dominated, Cuban-supported,

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

5

anti-Nicaragua revolutionary group). In early August, Alberto Serrato, leader of the FLN in Costa Rica, (reportedly left with a group of Nicaraguans for the Costa Rican-Nicaraguan border. Another report indicated that Hector Bogantes Zamora, Costa Rican agitator was supposed to have left San Jose in mid-August for the Nicaraguan border to supervise the passage of Nicaraguan guerrillas from Costa Rica into Nicaragua. Bogantes, who recently returned from attending the May Day celebrations in Cuba, is said to have been assigned this responsibility by the Costa Rican Communist Party.

So far as we know, the GON, which is normally well- informed and highly sensitive to such activities on its borders, has not made any complaints or otherwise signified concern or awareness of these reported activities.

### Honduras

The Honduran armed forces began to move against a group of pro-Castro guerrillas operating against the Nicaraguan Government and active in the vicinity of the Nicaraguan-Honduran border. The Nicaraguan National Guard has been conducting operations on its side of the border against the insurgents since July. The dense jungle and difficult terrain, however, will impede the efforts of both forces to eliminate the guerrillas.

Information on the guerrilla force is scanty and conflicting. It is apparently composed of members of the National Liberation Front (FLN), a Communist-dominated and Cuban-supported revolutionary organization active primarily in Honduras and Nicaragua since the fall of 1962. The strength of the force is not known.

### Nicaragua

A captured guerrilla of the FLN (National Liberation Front a Communist-dominated, Cuban-supported, anti- Nicaraguan group) confessed that he was a member of a group of 46 who entered Nicaragua from Honduras on 22 July.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

## 6

He said that their mission was to establish a base camp in the Isabella mountains, Department of Jinotega, in order to indoctrinate the peasants and to train them in guerrilla tactics. He admitted that he had received six months' guerrilla warfare training in Cuba and that other FLN leaders had received similar training. He also said that the FLN training camp in Honduras was near El Lagarto, on the Patuca River.

4. Transfer of Funds

British Guiana

In British Guiana, Guiana Import-Export Corporation (Gimpex) received a one million dollar advance payment deposited by the Cuban Alimpex Corporation for goods to be delivered to Cuba in the future. Gimpex has, in turn, loaned this money to the Government of British Guiana. Cheddi Jagan's People's Progressive Party is the major stockholder in Gimpex. Mohammed Kassim, Manager of Gimpex, has indicated that Gimpex will be able to secure additional loans from Cuba in amounts sufficient to tide the Jagan government over any foreseeable crisis. It was also reported that Gimpex plans to buy aircraft, spare parts and other machinery in the United States for reshipment to Cuba.

General

Reports continue to be received from many places indicating that the suitcase full of currency is still one of the most common methods used by the Cubans for trans-mitting funds for use in supporting subversive activities throughout the hemisphere. Instances where such funds have been confiscated by the police have occurred recently in El Salvador, Panama and Ecuador.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# KNOWN TRAVEL OF LATIN AMERICANS TO AND FROM CUBA - JULY 1963

| NATIONALITY | JULY TO | JULY FROM | PURPOSE OF TRIP TO CUBA                                        |
| ----------- | ------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ARGENTINA   | 6       | 0         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| BOLIVIA     | 14      | 0         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| BRAZIL      | 25      | 0         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| BR. GUIANA  | 0       | 0         |                                                                |
| CHILE       | 20      | 1         | 26th of July Celebrations. A returning Chilean Diplomat        |
| COLOMBIA    | 29      | 1         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| COSTA RICA  | 12      | 0         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| DOM. REP.   | 37      | 0         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| ECUADOR     | 2       | 0         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| EL SALVADOR | 4       | 1         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| GUATEMALA   | 6       | 0         |                                                                |
| HAITI       | 0       | 0         |                                                                |
| HONDURAS    | 0       | 0         |                                                                |
| JAMAICA     | 33      | 1         | 30-Football team. 3-to 26th of July Celebrations.              |
| MEXICO      | 65      | 28        | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| NICARAGUA   | 5       | 0         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| PANAMA      | 15      | 0         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| PARAGUAY    | 3       | 0         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| PERU        | 4       | 0         |                                                                |
| TRINIDAD    | 0       | 0         |                                                                |
| URUGUAY     | 17      | 15        | 26th of July Celebrations. Most attending will remain to work. |
| VENEZUELA.  | 22      | 0         | 26th of July Celebrations.                                     |
| TOTALS      | 319     | 47        |                                                                |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# KNOWN TRAVEL OF LATIN AMERICANS TO AND FROM CUBA - AUGUST 1963

| NATIONALITY | AUGUST TO | AUGUST FROM | PURPOSE OF TRIP TO CUBA                                                            |
| ----------- | --------- | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ARGENTINA   | 4         | 0           | 26th July Celebrations.                                                            |
| BOLIVIA     | 5         | 3           |                                                                                    |
| BRAZIL      | 0         | 24          | 22-Returning from 26th July Celebrations.                                          |
| BR. GUIANA  | 7         | 10          | Herder Institute in Leipzig.                                                       |
| CHILE       | 22        | 47          | 8-Physical Ed. Seminar - 1-Seeking funds - 10-Returning from 26 July Celebrations. |
| COLOMBIA    | 6         | 14          |                                                                                    |
| COSTA RICA  | 0         | 8           | 26th July Celebrations.                                                            |
| DOM. REP.   | 1         | 8           |                                                                                    |
| ECUADOR     | 0         | 2           |                                                                                    |
| EL SALVADOR | 1         | 0           |                                                                                    |
| GUATEMALA   | 3         | 0           | 1-Study at University of Sofia.                                                    |
| HAITI       | 0         | 0           |                                                                                    |
| HONDURAS    | 0         | 8           |                                                                                    |
| JAMAICA     | 0         | 2           |                                                                                    |
| MEXICO      | 34        | 63          | 26th July Celebrations.                                                            |
| NICARAGUA   | 0         | 0           |                                                                                    |
| PANAMA      | 6         | 0           | 26th July Celebrations.                                                            |
| PARAGUAY    | 0         | 0           |                                                                                    |
| PERU        | 2         | 9           | 9-Returning were members of (MIR) who received guerrilla training.                 |
| TRINIDAD    | 0         | 0           |                                                                                    |
| URUGUAY     | 10        | 16          | 26th July Celebrations.                                                            |
| VENEZUELA   | 3         | 0           | 26th July Celebrations.                                                            |
| TOTALS      | 104       | 214         |                                                                                    |


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)