# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 6/24/201

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: 198-10007-10022
RECORD SERIES: CALIFANO PAPERS
AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Agency Information

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: ARMY
FROM: JOSEPH A. CALIFANO, JR.
TO: ICCCA
TITLE: ICCCA: REPORT ON STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF ACTIONS DESIGNED TO COUNTER SUBVERSION

DATE: 07/18/1963
PAGES: 17
SUBJECTS: CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/08/1998
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 2, Folder 26. Memo from Califano to ICCCA re: the Report on the Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to Counter Subversion. Also appears in Califano Box 6, Folder 11.

![JFK Review Department of the Army EO 13526, Declassify Exclude Exempt Authority, Refer To, Review Date 08/12/2015 By Kes-]

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId:32424015 Page 1

31


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

July 18, 1963

MEMORANDUM NO. 53 FOR GENERAL EARLE G. WHEELER (JCS)
CAPTAIN E. R. ZUMWALT, JR., USN (OSD)
MAJOR GENERAL J. D. ALGER, USA
REAR ADMIRAL W. WENDT, USN
MAJOR GENERAL J. W. CARPENTER, III, USAF
BRIGADIER GENERAL H. M. ELWOOD, USMC

SUBJECT: Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee of Cuban Affairs:
Report on Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to
Counter Subversion (U)

References: a. SecArmy memo, subj: ICCCA: Movement of Subversives
and Subversive Trainees, dated 15 Mar 63.
b. Spec Asst to SecArmy memo, subj: ICCOCA: Report on
the Status of Implementation of Actions Approved by The
President, dated 20 Mar 63.
c. Spec Asst to Sec Army memo, subj: ICCOCA: Report on
the Status of Actions Approved by the President, dated
29 Apr 63.
d. Spec Asst to SecArmy memo, subj: ICCOCA: Report on
Status of Implementation of Actions Designed to Counter
Subversion, 27 Jun 63.

Attached herewith is a final draft of the Report to the President of
the Subcommittee on Cuban Subversion on Progress Made During the April-
June Period in Curbing Cuban Subversion in Latin America.

It is requested that comments, if any, be provided this office by
1200 hours, 22 July 1963. The Department of Defense portion of subject
report is based on submissions furnished in response to reference d.

OSA, ASG Control No. 16736

SECRET EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC REGRADING
DOD DIR 5200.10 DOES NOT APPLY

NW 50955 DocId:32424015 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

Future Subcommittee Progress Reports will be prepared on a monthly basis for the previous month's activities and will follow the format utilized in the attached draft. It is requested that appropriate points of contact provide this office (Room ZE-614) by 1600 hours on 1 August 1963 and each month thereafter, a report, in duplicate, on the status of those actions approved by the President and assigned to their respective organizations. Additionally, this report should include any other actions taken to counter Castro subversion.

Signed
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
General Counsel

Attachment
As stated

cc: Mr. Yarmolinsky (OSD)

Mr. Califano
Lt Col Haig
ASG

2

SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32424015 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

REPORT OF SUB-COMMITTEE ON CUBAN SUBVERSION

ON PROGRESS MADE DURING APRIL-JUNE PERIOD

IN CURBING CUBAN SUBVERSION IN LATIN AMERICA

SECRET

USA, ASG Control No. 16736

NW 50955 DocId:32424015 Page 4

20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

1. The Department of State:

A. Participated in the preparations for and the holding of the Managua meeting on subversion, which was held April 3-4.

B. Headed an inter-departmental team which visited the Isthmian countries to encourage implementation of the recommendations for curbing subversion which were agreed on at the Managua meeting.

C. Prepared a report on the inter-departmental team's suvery of the Central American countries, containing recommendations for further action in this field, and advised affected U. S. agencies and foreign service posts of the guidelines for operation of the military alerting system.

D. Worked in the OAS in drafting a report containing practical recommendations to counteract Castro/communist subversion in the fields of the movement of travel, propaganda and funds, and prepared the ground for a COAS decision to transmit the report to member Governments urging them to implement the recommendations contained therein.

E. Drew official and public attention in Latin American countries to the capture of Peruvians who were returning from Habana by an overland route through Bolivia, and urged the Peruvian Government to make details of this case known to the OAS.

F. Helped publicize the capture of an Ecuadoran subversive who was returning to Ecuador from Cuba by way of Prague with $25,000 in cash on his person, and requested the Ecuadoran Government to make an official report of this matter to the OAS.

G. Sent a U.S. Consul to Gran Cayman to investigate Cuban flights to that island, and secured the cooperation of the Costa Rican Government in preventing the use of LACSA aircraft to transport subversives to San Jose off-landed in Gran Cayman.

H. Approached the British Government various times to seek its cooperation in preventing the use of Gran

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

Cayman and its other Caribbean possessions as traffic refueling or transit stops for planes flying to and from Cuba.

I. Continued pressure on the Dutch Government and KLM airline officials not to resume KLM flights to Cuba, thus limiting the access to Cuba by Free World airlines.

J. Obtained the cooperation of CMA airline (Mexico) to keep its mail and cargo flights to Cuba on an unscheduled basis and to avoid carrying passenger's on the Habana-Mexico City leg of its service.

K. Continued efforts with the Canadian and Mexican Governments to secure their cooperation in preventing Cubans from introducing Russian IL-18's on flights between Habana and their countries.

L. Urged the Brazilian Government not to grant landing rights for Soviet Bloc or Cuban planes servicing Cuba, and continued efforts to keep Brazil from signing a civil air agreement with Cuba.

M. Sought cooperation of various African Governments in preventing the use of African airports as transit points for regular USSR-Cuba air service with TU-114's or as refueling stops for ferrying IL-18's to Cuba.

N. Initiated action to request US-owned and controlled oil companies in the Caribbean and Latin America to refuse bunkers voluntarily to vessels and aircraft in the Cuba trade.

O. Requested the Spanish Government to limit or eliminate service to Cuba by Iberia airlines and Spanish shipping companies.

P. Blocked initiation of an ocean ferry service between Habana and Florida by employing various delaying and obstructing tactics.

Q. Ordered, as of April 1, that all U.S. passports be marked not valid for travel to Cuba to insure that ban on travel to Cuba would be more effectively enforced.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

R. Informed the Mexican Government that Americans were not permitted to travel to Cuba without authorization and requested their assistance in preventing U.S. citizens from transiting Mexico en route to Cuba.

S. Instructed posts in Latin America to encourage host governments to take appropriate measures to discourage participation of their nationals in Cuba's May Day celebrations, and to prevent charter flights from their country to Cuba for the celebration.

T. Informed affected governments of the names of their nationals who had returned from Cuba on the Cuban plane which flew the new Cuban Ambassador and his party to Brazil, and suggested that they take this matter up with Brazil. Also called this Cuban action to the attention of the Brazilian Government.

U. Worked through Chilean Government and university circles to block the holding of the Communist-inspired II Latin American Youth Congress scheduled for Santiago, Chile in August 1963.

V. Encouraged the President of Honduras to have his immigration officials request clearance from our Embassy in Tegucigalpa before granting visas to Cubans wishing to enter Honduras from Cuba.

W. Encouraged the Benelux and Italian Governments to maintain visa requirements for Cubans travelling to their countries despite Cuba's having done away with visa requirements for their nationals who visit Cuba.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

2. The Department of Defense:

A. Continued surveillance of the area surrounding Cuba at the same rate and with the same emphasis as existed prior to that date. Between 25 April and 23 May 1963 additional sea surveillance was realized between Cuba and Haiti, due to the stationing of the Caribbean Ready Amphibious Squadron at the entrance of the Gulf of Gonaives occasioned by the deterioration of internal conditions in Haiti.

B. Continued the installation of military communications facilities in Latin America. Due to noncommunication difficulties, the multi-channel radio station scheduled for installation at Managua, Nicaragua by 1 July 1963 will be completed on or about 27 July 1963. Entry negotiations have been completed with Honduras, with the military rádio facilities installation scheduled for completion on or about 10 October 1963. Negotiations are continuing in Colombia and Ecuador for the installation of military radio facilities.

C. Continued the surveillance of Cuba by U. S. forces, reporting as before, to U. S. commanders, organizations and agencies. Reports of subversive movement, obtained by U.S. surveillance have been made available for immediate transmittal through U. S. military alerting system.

D. Reached agreement with CIA on steps to be taken to prevent duplication of effort in operating a U.S. military alerting system and furnished guidance on this matter to USCINCSO and CINCLANT. After clarification of the role of the U. S. Military Groups by USCINCSO the military alerting system was again placed in operation effective 15 June 1963.

E. Maintained U. S. forces, for the most part from within the Atlantic Command, available to respond to assist in the final interception of suspicious craft in territorial waters, upon the request of the country concerned. Currently, forces are assigned by the United Commander involved to meet the singular problem encountered. In somewhat similar circumstances, U. S. forces of Atlantic Command have responded to this requirement in the cases of the Venezuelan ship ANZOATEGUI and the Italian ship CANNA REGIA,

F. Had the U. S. Coast Guard Mobile Training Team (MTT) report for duty in the Canal Zone on 15 May 1963 to perform as a Small

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

Craft Inspection and Training Team (SCIATT). Members of the SCIATT
accompanied by a representative from the staff of Commander U. S.
Naval Forces, Southern Command (COMUSNAVSO) have completed an in-
country evaluation of 40-foot Coast Guard Utility Boats (CGUBs) in
five Central American countries and a detailed program through
mid-November has been prepared for improving the material readiness
and handling of the CGUBs provided by MAP. Action is underway to
expedite delivery of spare parts required for maintenance of the
boats.

COMUSNAVSO has now initiated a request to establish SCIATT
billets with permanent personnel for an initial period of three
years in order to fully develop the Central American CGUB program.
The success of this program would be a major contribution to the
Caribbean Surveillance System. U. S. Commander in Chief, Southern
Command (USCINCSO) has recommended approval of COMUSNAVSO's request
to CNO and action is being coordinated with OSD/ISA, JCS and USCG
to obtain approval and appropriate funding for permanent billets.

The 40-foot CGUB permanently assigned to the U. S. Naval
Station, Rodman, Canal Zone, for use by the SCIATT has been
delivered and is in the process of being activated.

G. Continued efforts to improve the internal security
of Latin American armies through the provision of Intelligence
Advisors. Presently there are such advisors assigned to 14
Latin countries, emphasizing counterintelligence and counter-
subversion.

H. Continued, through its intelligence agencies, work on
studies concerning Castro/Communist subversion directed against
Latin America.

I. Increased to 12 the number of Latin American countries in
which there are intelligence exchange arrangements between U. S.
and local military services.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

3. The Central Intelligence Agency:

A. Completed efforts to improve U.S. government communications in Latin America by the installation of the remaining two commercial leased circuits into Guatemala City and Managua, and the stationing on a permanent basis of 35 CIA radio operators in Latin America in replacement of temporary duty personnel. In November 1962, CIA's active radio facilities in 20 Latin American capitals were augmented with on-line cryptographic facilities and temporary personnel to handle the bulk of all U.S. government communications in the area. These facilities, known as Joint Communications Centers, are now being operated by CIA on a 24-hour basis, as a service to all U.S. government agencies. Latin American traffic handled by the CIA base radio station near Washington has increased from 3,000,000 groups handled in October 1962 to 15,000,000 groups handled in March 1963.

B. Increased its efforts designed to control the movement of persons, arms and propaganda materials to and from Cuba. A summary of actions by country follows:

1.  Argentina - Station, in conjunction with the Embassy, has continued to press the Argentine government to enact effective travel control legislation and to adopt measures recommended by the Special Consultative Committee on Security of the OAS. Information on Argentines travelling to Cuba is being furnished to the Argentine government by the station. Several potential travellers to Cuba have been spotted and are being assessed by the station. Information from three recent returnees from Cuba is being obtained through debriefings. Station reports that because of increased Mexican controls, all truly clandestine travel to Cuba from Argentina is now via Prague. The Argentine Security Service has informed the station that mail censorship and customs controls at the docks and airports are 95% effective in preventing the entrance of Cuban propaganda through these channels. Local dissemination of propaganda is regulated by an Argentine inter-agency committee, which reviews any new propaganda items and takes action to stop dissemination of any item judged to be pro-Cuban or pro-Communist. During May the Argentine government issued a new decree which restricts Communist activities within Argentina. The station has continued to press the Security Service to urge regulation of travel to Cuba, but the adoption of such measures has been delayed pending government receipt on an official basis of the OAS recommendations. Through several assets the station is working on leads which it is hoped will reveal the basic sources of illegal arms sales in Argentina.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

2. Bolivia - Station has been urging Bolivian government
   to adopt stricter travel controls, without apparent results
   so far. Names of travellers known to have returned from Cuba
   are being furnished to the Bolivian government. Thus far,
   no action is known to have been taken by the Bolivian
   government on the strength of such information. Station comments
   that problem with Bolivia is not in lack of information
   available to government on Cuban subversion, but in getting
   Bolivia to do something about it. The station has also
   furnished considerable information, including some
   surreptitiously acquired documents, to the Ambassador for his
   use in urging Bolivian government action against Cuba.
   Considerable information is also being obtained through the
   interrogation of Peruvian guerrillas captured attempting to
   cross into Peru early in June.

3. Brazil - Information on Brazilians who have received
   subversive training in Cuba has been made available to the
   National Security Council through CIA liaison with the
   NSC's Security Service. While the Brazilians have stated
   that the information is "of interest," there is no firm
   indication to date that they have the capability or desire to
   really follow up on the information furnished.

An asset of the CIA station in Rio is in a position
to harass and delay Cuba-bound travellers in those instances
where the station is able to tip him off regarding their
destination. He can also harass returnees when informed in
advance. The station is taking steps to get appropriate
information to him promptly. The station has indicated that
in spite of its increased efforts, there are no indications
of any basic change in the Brazilian attitude toward Cuba,
and it is unlikely that the Brazilian government will take
adequate steps to combat Cuban subversion.

4. Chile - Chilean internal security authorities, at
   urging of station, are trying to impede and harass travellers
   to and from Cuba. Government is now requiring passport
   applicants to state destination, and passports must be turned
   in after travel. The Foreign Minister has stated much progress
   is being made, with cooperation of the Mexican government, and
   that travel of Chileans to Cuba has been dramatically reduced
   in recent weeks. Station and Embassy are continuing pressure
   on Cuban government in this regard. Names of travellers to
   Cuba are being passed to the Ambassador, who furnishes them
   to President Alessandri (who has asked that this collaboration
   be kept secret). Information from CIA unilateral operations

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

against Cuban Embassy is being used by a newly created Chilean surveillance team in checking out purpose of travel projected and in following up on returnees from Cuba. The station has an agent in daily contact with leaders of the extreme militant left and is exploring the possibilities of sending three station assets to Cuba for training and intelligence missions. A Cuban First Secretary was declared persona non grata during April for using false identity documents, and the Cuban charge d'affaires was subsequently recalled by his own government. Two new sources have recently been recruited by the station who are in a position to furnish valuable information concerning not only certain aspects of the situation within Cuba, but details concerning travel to and from Cuba by both legal and illegal means. The station is now in the process of debriefing an asset who recently returned to Santiago after spending one month in Cuba as a trainee. Efforts are being made to have other station assets included in future training programs.

5. Colombia - Chief of Customs has indicated to station his willingness to institute an improved travel control system. Station believes it has identified a courier operating between Colombia and Cuba and has mounted an operation to uncover his Colombian contacts. One station asset is now in Cuba attending guerrilla warfare training, another is being debriefed after his recent return from Cuba, and a third expects to depart soon for two months training in Cuba. The station is continuing to develop leads provided by one recent returnee, and thus far this investigation has involved members of both the Colombian Congress and the Bogota municipal government. A Colombian Civic Action Group, composed of influential local businessmen, which is subsidized and directed by the station, has established an anti-Castro propaganda unit. This group is actively collecting evidence of Cuban subversion in Colombia to support its propaganda campaign.

6. Costa Rica - Local authorities appear to be inclined to cooperate in a program of harassing travellers to Cuba. A station asset in the Costa Rican Security Service has been confiscating the passports of persons returning from Cuba and has cooperated in other ways. One station asset is expected to travel to Cuba soon for training. The "Kennedy Groups," which were organized at the time of the President's visit to Costa Rica, are being encouraged to collect information of all sorts concerning Cuban subversive activities, and to participate in propaganda activities aimed at Cuban subversion. Other station propaganda assets have kept up a

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

steady campaign against Cuban activities, and the Costa Rican Security Service, at the urging of the CIA station, has destroyed tons of propaganda brought into the country from Cuba.

7. Dominican Republic - Efforts to get Juan Bosch to take active steps against Communists and travellers to and from Cuba have been fruitless to date, as have been efforts to establish a new and effective internal security organization in the Dominican Republic. Bosch appears to have lost his previously stated enthusiasm for such a service, but efforts to persuade him to approve a proposed budget for the service are continuing.

8. Ecuador - Station reports that, largely as a result of both overt and covert propaganda activities of U.S. agencies in Ecuador, the public awareness of Cuban subversion has changed from apathy to genuine concern. The government, however, is no more inclined to take action than before. The National Director of Immigration has stated that he personally would like to do whatever he can to stop travel to Cuba, which he realizes is for subversive purposes, but present laws do not permit him to impede travel via third countries. He is exploring possibilities of reprisals against citizens who return from Cuba. He has checked a list of names and passport numbers obtained by CIA from airline manifests in Mexico, and reports that not one name or passport number corresponds with official Ecuadoran records, indicating the possibility of fabrication of passports by Cuba.

A recent Ecuadoran returnee from Cuba, recruited by the station, lost his hand in testing a homemade bomb made in accordance with instructions received in Cuba. He made a public statement and wide publicity was arranged by the station and USIS. Plans are to keep this incident alive as proof of revolutionary training given in Cuba for terrorist activity in Ecuador.

The station chief has accompanied the American Ambassador on visits to the Ecuadoran Ministers of Defense and Government to stress the threat of Cuban backed subversion.

Approximately 7,000 pounds of Communist propaganda are being destroyed monthly as a result of a unilateral operation of the CIA Base in Guayaquil.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

There have been at least two recent cases of Ecuadoran returnees from Cuba being arrested upon their arrival, one of them having been found in possession of a large sum of U.S. dollars, and another allegedly having a plan of revolutionary action found on his person. In both cases the Ecuadoran authorities had been informed of the pending arrivals of these individuals by the CIA station.

9. El Salvador - The station has called to the attention of the Chief of the Salvadoran Security Service the fact that the stamping of passports "not valid for travel to Cuba" is not being done on a regular basis, and received assurance that the Foreign Office and Immigration Police would be reminded of their obligation to do this. The station is embarking on an expanded program of assistance to Department 2 of the Ministry of Defense, which is in fact the Salvadoran Clandestine Internal Security Service. That service has indicated a willingness and desire to combat Cuban subversion, but so far it has lacked both know-how and equipment to do so.

10. Guatemala - The CIA station in Guatemala City has found its efforts in this field hampered considerably by the apathy and disorganization of the Guatemalan government. Early this year the only effective Internal Security Service in Guatemala was disbanded by President Ydigoras, and no adequate organization has been established since the Peralta government came into power. Through unilateral assets the station has been able to keep itself reasonably well informed concerning guerrilla activities and travel to and from Cuba. However, it has been unable to bring about any effective counter Cuban activity on the part of the Guatemalan government.

11. Jamaica - New and more stringent regulations concerning travel to Cuba were adopted by the Jamaican government during May, partially as a result of the urging of the CIA station. The Jamaican Internal Security authorities have shown a willingness to do everything they can to control such travel, and have indicated a high degree of cooperation with the CIA station.

12. Haiti - Because of the continued political crisis in Haiti, the CIA station activities there with regard to Cuban activities have been severely limited and have consisted primarily of checks made by unilateral station

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32424015 Page 14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

assets who have reported from Cape Haitien, Port de Paix and La Gonave and La Tortue Islands that they were unable to uncover any evidence of travel to or from Cuba. No cooperation between the station and Haitian authorities can be expected under the present political circumstances.

13. Honduras - The CIA station in Tegucigalpa has persistently prodded security elements of the Honduran government in an effort to persuade that government to undertake the actions agreed to at Managua. The government has now begun stamping most new passports "invalid for travel to Cuba." However, revalidated passports are not being so stamped. Station assets have succeeded in publicizing some Cuban subversive activities, including the return of eight leftist labor leaders from a trip to Cuba and the sabotage of a fishing vessel which was being used by anti-Castro Cuban exiles to surveil the northern coast of Honduras. Several alleged Cuban agents are now being held in jail pending legal proceedings against them.

14. Mexico - A CIA source states the Cuban Embassy has continued to issue visas on pieces of paper separate from the passport, but the government's practice of stamping all passports to show travel to or from Cuba has largely nullified this effort by travellers to avoid the stigma of travel to Cuba. All Cubans arriving in Mexico, whether in transit or otherwise must have Mexican visas. This is not true of other nationalities, who need no visa if in transit. The government continues to confiscate propaganda material from Cuba sporadically at the airport. The government recently refused visas to five Cuban doctors who wished to attend a Urology Congress in Mexico. Several station assets have recently travelled to Cuba for intelligence purposes. Through unilateral penetrations of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, the CIA station continues to acquire information on types of Cuban visas granted to travellers, as well as some advance travel data.

15. Panama - At the urging of station, the Guardia Nacional has been ordered to increase its vigilance concerning returnees from Cuba and to prevent them from establishing an effective organization. Several recent returnees from Cuba are being debriefed regarding their training and contacts, and several CIA assets are

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32424015 Page 15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

expecting to leave for Cuba in the near future for training. CIA has increased its personnel assigned to travel control functions at the Panama City airport, now permitting a three-man detail for each eight-hour shift. Station is continuing its pressure on Panamanian officials to tighten travel controls.

16. Nicaragua - The Nicaraguan Security Services with whom the CIA station is in liaison have been cooperative in their efforts to take suitable action based on the Managua resolutions. Cuban activity in Nicaragua appears to be at a minimum, and the government has the will and ability to control it.

17. Peru - Through the cooperation of a Peruvian intelligence organization, CIA officers have been able to participate in the interrogation of several Cuba-trained guerrillas as who were recently captured when they attempted to enter Peru near Puerto Maldonado. The interrogation should provide additional data on guerrilla training, Soviet activities in Cuba, and particularly on Cuban support to guerrilla activities in Peru. Further information has been obtained through a unilateral asset of the station who is active in guerrilla activities of the MIR. An investigation of small arms manufacture in a machine shop in Lima is underway at the urging of the station. The station has furnished additional technical equipment to the Peruvian Naval Intelligence Service to increase its capability to intercept clandestine radio communications from Cuba, and partly as a result of CIA station urging, that organization ion has been able to obtain 12 investigators assigned by another Peruvian internal security service to assist in the investigation of subversive activities in the port areas of Peru. A Communist penetration agent, who is being run jointly by the Peruvian Internal Security Service and the CIA station, has been offered an opportunity to go to Cuba for training. Considerable information concerning the Peruvian MIR plans for financing the acquisition of arms, communications equipment and other information concerning MIR guerrilla activities has been acquired through a unilateral asset of the station.

18. Uruguay - Station has made arrangements with local service to pigeonhole or "lose" applications for good conduct certificates which are needed to secure passports, and must be renewed every six months in cases where information from the CIA station or from the Uruguayans'

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

own sources indicated intention of travelling to Cuba. Pertinent information from CIA unilateral operations is being passed regularly to cooperating Uruguayan officials. Station has a further check in that the Mexican Ambassador to Uruguay is now checking all applicants for Mexican visas with the station. On the basis of information furnished to him, he held up visa applications of Uruguayan Communist Labor delegates who planned to attend May Day celebrations in Havana. Creation of this bottleneck may force some travellers to abandon the Mexican route to Cuba and turn to the longer and far more expensive route via Prague. Information on past travel to Cuba by Uruguayans, furnished by the station, was included in a study of Cuban subversion prepared by Uruguayan Military Intelligence Service for the National Council of Government.

19. Venezuela - Travel information from the Caracas Airport is now being received on a daily basis by the CIA station. Venezuelan internal security officials have indicated a strong disposition to take all possible steps to repress Cuban subversive activities. The station has been passing pertinent information from unilateral sources to appropriate Venezuelan officials and, in some instances, action has been taken in accordance with the stations's request. Four Venezuelan officials have been trained in covert mail intercept techniques by a CIA technician and one additional Venezuelan security official is now undergoing training in the United States in the field of police administration, clandestine operations and audio surveillance. Venezuelan student teams, operating under the control of the CIA station, are intensifying their efforts to spot and recruit members of extremist youth groups who are likely to be sent to Cuba for training purposes.

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32424015 Page 17-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

4.  The U.S. Information Agency:

    A. Issued a detailed information policy guidance to all its Washington media divisions on March 28 setting forth the basic themes to be followed and types of materials to be developed in exposing Castro-Communist subversive activities in the hemisphere. This was followed on April 3 by a circular instruction (USIA CA-2819) to all USIS field posts in Latin America urging each to stimulate local press and radio attention to evidence of Cuban-based subversion and to report promptly local developments, official comment, and editorials, for cross-play to other countries.

    B. Broadcast over Voice of America a total of 26 features and commentaries on the subject of Cuban-based subversion in its Spanish-language transmissions to Latin America during the three month period. This was in addition to regular reporting of developments on the subject in the Voice's hourly newscasts. Prominent attention was given to the Managua Ministers Meeting, the OAS reports of the Special Consultative Committee on Security and the Lavalle Committee, the capture in Bolivia and Peru of Cuban-trained guerrillas, the discovery of a subversive plot in Ecuador, and terrorism and counter-measures in Venezuela. Special features included editorial round-ups from the Latin American press on subversion, a dramatization of an incident in Ecuador, a chronology of subversive acts involving Cuban diplomats, and a history of subversion. In the usual Voice of America practice, these features and commentaries were sent to USIS field posts in tape recordings after short-wave broadcast for placement on the hundreds of local medium-wave stations in the area.

    C. Transmitted by teletype through its press service a total of 33 articles on Cuban-based subversion during the three- month period to USIS posts throughout Latin America for placement in the local press. These included news stories, commentaries, and backgrounders on essentially the same developments which were treated by the Voice of America. The Agency's Information Officers in each country were provided with copies of the OAS reports for use in their personal contacts with press and radio personnel. A pamphlet based on the letters from the Guatemalan ex-communist leader Carlos Manuel Pellecer to Castro and Khrushchev in which he revealed communist subversive tactics was developed by the Agency's publications center in Moxico for reproduction and distribution throughout the area. Work was completed also on a cartoon book, *The Despoilern*, the story of two young Cubans who tour the communist bloc encountering oppression and food shortages and return home to find the same conditions developing in their own country. The cartoon book is being distributed in over a million copies throughout Latin America.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)