# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System
### Identification Form
Date: 6/24/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: ARMY
RECORD NUMBER: 198-10005-10018

RECORD SERIES : CALIFANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: MULTIPLE
FROM:
TO:
TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/0000
PAGES: 123

SUBJECTS: ARMS SMUGGLING, CUBA
LATIN AMERICA SECURITY
CUBAN SPONSORED SUBVERSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1997

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Califano Papers, Box 6, Folder 30. Assorted documents related to Cuban material support of Communist subversives in Latin America.

> [Figure: JFK Records Review stamp] Department of the Army EO 13526
> Declassify
> Authority:
> Refer To:
> Review Date 3/12/2015 By Kiner

v9.1
NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 1
12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ARMS SHIPMENTS - TO
AND FROM CUBA

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

## ARMS SHIPMENT

General:
Arms smuggling is one of the "facts of life" in Latin America and has been engaged in by dissident elements for many years.

Reports of Castro involvement in these activities have been frequent since shortly after his seizure of power early in 1959. None of these reports has ever been proven. With the arrival of large quantities of Soviet Bloc arms in 1961, Cuba recovered all U.S. arms in the hands of the populace and made it a crime punishable by death to have possession of weapons of U.S. manufacture. The U.S. arms furnished under the MAP to former Cuban governments together with those collected by Castro provide the Castro government with large stocks which could be shipped to subversive groups in other countries. Identification of these arms with Cuba would be extremely difficult.

TAB

1. Reports of Method of Operation

This Tab contains five items: (1) Two reports alleging arms smuggling by fishermen and by means of food products shipped to Latin America; (2) A report which indicates that a Cuban arms cache discovered in Brazil is not of Cuban origin; and (3) Two reports concerning a Cuban arsenal purportedly being used to supply arms for an invasion of some Caribbean country or an invasion of South America.

2. Reports of Arms Smuggling

This Tab contains a number of items reporting arms smuggling to Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Venezuela, British Guiana and Brazil. Note particularly the top item in which the British indicate the numerous reports on arms smuggling to British

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

Qulana are without foundation and the second iten which refutes the report contained in the *Life Magazine* article of 8 February,





SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is, prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY CUBA/LATIN AMERICA
REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/653,152

SUBJECT POSSIBLE CONCEALMENT OF WEAPONS FOR SHIPMENT TO LATIN AMERICA
DATE DISTR. 6 FEBRUARY 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF INFO. LATE 1962
REFERENCES IN 62553 35871

PLACE & DATE ACO. UNITED STATES (4 FEBRUARY 1963)

APPRAISAL 6
FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
U.S. OWNER (C) OF A MARINA, FROM A FORMER CUBAN AIR FORCE OFFICER, FROM THE BROTHER OF AN EMPLOYEE OF A CANNERY IN SAN CRISTOBAL.

1. IN LATE 1962 A DAY-SHIFT EMPLOYEE AT A CANNERY IN SAN CRISTOBAL, PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE, FOUND A HAND GRENADE WRAPPED IN NYLON AND BEDDED IN SHREDDED COCONUT IN A CAN WHICH HAD FELT UNUSUALLY HEAVY. (FIELD COMMENT: IT IS NOT CLEAR WHETHER THE CAN HAD GONE THROUGH THE CANNING PROCESS AND HAD BEEN SEALED.) AS A RESULT OF HIS DISCOVERY THE WORKER WAS ALMOST FIRED. ONE OF THE MILITIA GUARDS AT THE CANNERY SAID THAT AMMUNITION AND OTHER EQUIPMENT IS REGULARLY CANNED AND SHIPPED TO LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES. A SPECIAL NIGHT SHIFT WORKS AT THE PLANT.

2. (FIELD COMMENT: AN UNTESTED SOURCE REPORTED IN EARLY OCTOBER 1962 THAT IN JULY 1962 A STORY WAS CIRCULATING IN SAN

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
CONTROLLED DISSEM

GROUP I
Excluded fram automatic
downgrading and
declassification

STATE/INR ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00 FBI

REPCINCLANT INS EXO

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1Kb OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
CONTROLLED DISSEM

TDCS DB-3/653,152
IN 62553
35871
PAGE 2

ANDRES, AN ISLAND POSSESSION OF COLOMBIA, THAT A PISTOL HAD
BEEN FOUND EARLIER CONCEALED INSIDE A FROZEN CHICKEN WHICH
HAD BEEN PART OF A SHIPMENT RECEIVED FROM CUBA.)

3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCARIB, CINCLANT.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
CONTROLLED DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET
NO FORLISSEM

An aras cache of weapons and ammunition recently discovered at the
Idgas Camponesas guerrilla training center in the interior of the
Brasilien state of Goias is believed by US Embassy and CAS officers to
be of Brazilien rather than Cuban arms, despite a Brazilian newspaper
suggestion that they were Cuben. There were also discovered about 125
copies of Communist publications including Che Guevara's well-known
treatise on "Querrilla Warfare". The training center was described as
organized according to that book. A confidential report on the discoveries
added that "members of the center went to be the Brazilian equivalent
of those who fought in the Bierre Maestra and so bring the hard Chinese-
Cuban type revolution to Brazil." Some 90 to 95 persons in the locality
are reported members of or sympathetic to the Ligas Camponesas activities,
but only 2 of the 24 for whom warrents were issued have yet been teken
into custody. (Am Emb, Rio de Janeiro 1122, 10 Deceniber, CONFIDENTIAL,
and CIA, Brasilia, IN 33026, 11 December, SECRET NOFORN)

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# INFORMATION REPORT

The material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/USSR/Latin America
REPORT NO. CS-3/530,898

SUBJECT

1. Use of Soviet Fishing Boats to Transport Arms to Latin America
2. Belgian Arms Dealer in Habana

DATE DISTR. 11 Décember 1962
NO. PAGES 1
REFERENCES RD -W-2107
RD-ACQ-01258

DATE OF INFO.
Paras. 1 & 2: October 1962;
Para. 3: August 1962
Paras. 1, 2: France, Paris;
Para. 3: Spain, Madrid

38957

DATE ACQ.
Paras. 1, 2: 23 November 1962;
Para. 3: 12 October 1962
FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: Paras. 1 & 2: An official French service; Para. 3: CC-1197, Cuban refugee (F), a former employee of the Cuban diplomatic service, who visited Santiago de Cuba in August 1962, Appraisal of Content: 3.

1. Soviet fishing boats, under cover of fishing Atlantic waters, are transporting contraband arms to Latin American countries. The boats are met outside the territorial waters of those countries, and arms are transferred in small quantities. On board the Soviet boats are only Soviets and a very few Cubans or other Latin Americans who talk with those who pick up the arms. The arms being delivered are of American manufacture, including those obtained during the Batista regime and those taken during the Playa Giron invasion. The Soviet fishing boats also carry propaganda, and pamphlets containing military instructions, the same type of material being sent by diplomatic pouch from Mexico.

2. A Belgian in Habana who says he represents a Belgian firm, has offered the Cuban Government any type and nationality of arms for payment in dollars. The Belgian has made a similar offer of sale of arms to a representative of an anti-Castro group in Habana.

3. In August 1962 a fisherman in Santiago de Cuba said that on several occasions he had been forced by the Government to use his boat for transporting small groups of men, in civilian clothes, and supplies of arms. He also knew of other fishermen who had been forced to do the same. The men and arms were carried to small islands or transferred to other boats at sea. Such trips sometimes lasted as long as four or five days. The fisherman did not know the purpose or final destination of the men and arms.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| STATE                  | X ARMY        | X NAVY | X AIR | X NSA | X OCR | X DIA | X FBI |
| ---------------------- | ------------- | ------ | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| REPCINCLANT CINCARIB # | COAST GUARD X |        |       |       |       |       |       |

(Note: Washington distribution indicated by "X", Field distribution by "#")

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CIA INFORMATION REPORT
CS-3/532,138
26 December 1962
COUNTRY: CUBA
SUBJECT: IDENTIFICATION OF CUBAN VESSELS ALLEGEDLY PREPARED TO INVADE A
CARIBBEAN COUNTRY
DATE OF INFO: 28 NOVEMBER 1962
SOURCE: TRAVELING SALESMAN (F)
APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 3
HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: ACCORDING TO TDCS-3/530,589, DATED 6 DECEMBER 1962, AS
OF MID-NOVEMBER TWO CUBAN SHIPS LOADED WITH PERSONNEL AND EQUIPMENT WERE SXNX
SAID TO BE PREPARED FOR AN INVASION OF HAITI. SOURCE SAID HE WOULD PROVIDE THE
NAMES OF THE SHIPS AND THEIR DEPARTURE DATE.

THE FRUCUBA AND THE FUNDADOR, CUBAN-FLAG VESSELS, WERE DOCKED AT THE ARSENAL
DOCKS IN CASABLANCA (HABANA) IN LATE NOVEMBER. THESE YKKS VESSELS WERE SCHEDULED
TO PARTICIPATE IN AN INVASION OF SOME CARIBBEAN COUNTRY.

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM
SECRET
NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# ARMS SHIPMENTS
CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

CUBA

Stockpile of War Materiel for Latin America (C)

19 January 1962
1 of 1
None

Early January 1962
O-5

Habana, c/a 7 January 62
LUJ 316/36-6-62
DIS
DUJ
DUJ-43-62

1.  Source reports an arsenal or stockpiling of war materiel at Casablanca, a Habana District, northeast shore of Habana Bay, Habana Province.

2.  Source has heard this materiel is targeted for an invasion of South America.

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEARS
INTERVALS NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED
DOD DIR 5200.10

CONFID'EN TIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

OPNS BRANCH

![document page bottom] NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Venezuela Uncovers Communist Arms Cacne

The Venezuelan Government -- in a raid on a small village near Caracas on 5 January -- uncovered a large cache of arms and equipment which it claims belonged to the pro-Castro Armed Forces of National Liberation, reputed to be emerging as a para-military arm of the Venezuelan Communist Party. Several tons of explosives and large quantities of hand bombs, arms, and ammunition were seized as well as a nearby clandestine Communist radio transmitter. (SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

SOURCE: TDCS 533,071 (S/NFD); FBIS (OUO); PRESS

10 Jan 63 DIA Intelligence Bulletin Page 9
(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

HW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

ARMS SHIPMENTS

12 Feb 63 "All the information available to Her Majesty's Government
and to the British authorities in British Guiana indicates that there is
no truth whatever in the continuing reports that arms are being shipped
to the colony from Cuba. Similar stories have appeared from time to time
in the past, but upon examination all have been found to be without
foundation."

(British Embassy in US to Reuters, AP and UPI).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

12 February 1963

SUBJECT: (U) Reported Arms Shipment from Cuba on 14 Jan 63

1. The 2 February 1963 edition of *L'Unita* contains a story on Cuba with the following caption under the photo of a Russian freighter:

"But refugees aboard the *SHIRLEY LYKES* said two ships put out from Mariel (Cuba) only last week with holds loaded with weapons sent by Castro to British Guiana."

2. A debrief report of a Cuban national who arrived at Port Everglades on 25 January 1963 contained the following statement:

"I was told by an assistant ship inspector for the Port of Havana that on 14 January 1963 two launches captained by a man with what appeared to be an Italian accent had departed from the Le Coubre wharf (Havana). Manifest on ship indicated the destination was British Guiana. However, the ship inspector had been told by the stevedores at the wharf that two launches were loaded with arms and the true destination was Venezuela."

TD/00-X-3249316 DTG 2815052

3. The following information may refer to this arms shipment. An un-tested CIA course, a member of the Communist Party of Colombia in Cali, has stated that during a conversation on 5 January 1963 between Amado de Jesus Zapata, member of the Department of Valle Regional Committee of the Communist Party of Colombia (PCC), and P.I. Plata, a Cuban deep-cover agent working with the seventh of January Worker-Student - Peasant Movement (MOEC), in Colombia and Venezuela, Plata said that the MOEC is not a local movement but rather a part of a Latin American concept which is being assisted by Castro and the Cuban Govern-ment. He said he has been in Cali for one year on a special assignment from the top leaders in Cuba to see that arms, propaganda, and instruc-tions from Venezuela, originating in Cuba, get into the hands of the MOEC groups.

4. Plata said an important shipment for MOEC is due to arrive from Venezuela via Cucuta in February 1963. (Cucuta, capital of the Depart-ment of Norte de Santander, Colombia, is on the Venezuelan border and is a traditional center for smuggling between the two countries.)

CIA Report C-3-1/541, dated 10 Jan 63 Ref RD-W-2107


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

5.  Another report may also refer to this arms shipment. According to information dated 1 February 1963 from a CIA source and appraised by the CIA preparing office as possible true, Pedro MATOS, who together with the three-member regional command committee of the Partido Comunista de Venezuela (PCV) in the state of Zulia is responsible for PCV arms matters in that state, said recently that the party is awaiting a shipment of arms from Cuba and Panama but that the exact date of arrival is still unknown.

CIA Report TDCS-3/936,941, dtd 9 Feb 63 Ref IN 64876

6. Replies to DIA SICR's on this subject from NSA and CNO do not indicate any vessels departing Havana on or after 14 January bound for British Guiana, nor do State Department queries to Georgetown, for British Guiana indicate the arrival of any arms.. No reports have been received from service attaches in Venezuela or from sources in Panama concerning this particular matter.

Project Officer:
CDR Barton

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY NICARAGUA / HONDURAS / COSTA RICA / CUBA

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/534,035

SUBJECT PLANS TO LAND ARMS FROM CUBA IN HONDURAS

DATE DISTR. 16 JANUARY 1963

DATE OF INFO. 9 JANUARY 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

PLACE & DATE ACQ. NICARAGUA, MANAGUA (15 JANUARY 1963)

REFERENCES IN 50511

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO. NNM-729

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A NICARAGUAN JOURNALIST (C) FROM A NICARAGUAN OFFICIAL (F) IN: SAN JOSE; FROM CESAR AUGUSTO VILLAREAL CABEZAS

ACTION COPY

OPERATIONS AREA

1. ON 9 JANUARY 1963 CESAR AUGUSTO VILLAREAL CABEZAS, A NICARAGUAN REVOLUTIONARY LIVING IN SAN JOSE, SAID THAT HE WAS AWAITING INSTRUCTIONS TO GO TO PUERTO CORTES, HONDURAS TO RECEIVE A SHIPMENT OF ARMS WHICH WILL COME FROM CUBA ON THE "CORK_C", A MERCHANT VESSEL OF UNKNOWN REGISTRY. HE SAID THAT THE INSTRUCTIONS TO GO TO PUERTO CORTES WILL COME FROM CUBA THROUGH DR. EMILIO ORTEGA TAPIA.

2. THE "CORK_C" WILL UNLOAD THE ARMS AT CAYO COCHINO WHERE THEY WILL BE RECEIVED BY GRIFFIN (FNU), WHO LIVES IN PUERTO CORTES. GRIFFIN WILL DELIVER THE ARMS TO VILLAREAL AT PUERTO CORTES.

3. THE ARMS WILL BE TAKEN FROM PUERTO CORTES TO PUEBLO NUEVO,

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OBI 00
STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

DA IN 8112

FORM 1Kg OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 17

0000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/534,035

IN 50511
PAGE 2

NICARAGUA BY VILLAREAL, JULIO VELASQUEZ VELEZ, AND 'DR. HERNAN SILVA ARGUELO WHERE THEY WILL BE TURNED OVER TO DR. EMILIO FLORES OBREGON.

4. (SOURCE COMMENT: THE DATE OF ARRIVAL OF THE "CORK C" IS UNKNOWN. CARLOS FONSECA AMADOR, NICARAGUAN COMMUNIST GUERRILLA LEADER IN HONDURAS, HAS RECEIVED ARMS FROM CUBA BY THE SAME SYSTEM.)

FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY CINCARIB CINCLANT.

ACTION: ACSI, NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD
INFO : DCSOP
DA IN 8112

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 18

0000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
(When Filled In) 1963 FEB 9 11 41

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA
REPORT NO. TDCS-3/536,942
SUBJECT: POSSIBLE SHIPMENT OF ARMS FROM CUBA AND PANAMA TO WESTERN VENEZUELA
DATE DISTR. 9 FEBRUARY 1963
DATE OF INFO: 1 FEBRUARY 1963
PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE
PLACE & DATE ACQ.: VENEZUELA, MARACAIBO (1 FEBRUARY 1963)
REFERENCES: IN 64876
FIELD REPORT NO. HVC-2651
APPRAISAL: THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.
SOURCE: A MEMBER (C) OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA IN MARACAIBO.

1. PEDRO MATOS, WHO TOGETHER WITH THREE MEMBER REGIONAL COMMAND COMMITTEE OF THE PARTIDO COMUNISTA DE VENEZUELA (PCV, COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA) IN THE STATE OF ZULIA IS RESPONSIBLE FOR PCV ARMS MATTERS IN THAT STATE, SAID RECENTLY THAT THE PARTY IS AWAITING A SHIPMENT OF ARMS FROM CUBA AND PANAMA BUT THAT THE EXACT DATE OF ARRIVAL IS STILL UNKNOWN. SOURCE COMMENT: ALTHOUGH THE LOCATIONS OF ARMS ARE KNOWN ONLY TO MATOS AND THE REGIONAL COMMAND COMMITTEE, IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE AREA AROUND LA CONCEPCION AND LA PAZ; TOWNS APPROXIMATELY SOUTHWEST AND WEST, RESPECTIVELY, OF MARACAIBO CITY IN THE DISTRICT OF MARACAIBO, ARE SITES). (FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO SOURCE, THE REGIONAL

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

| STATE/INR | DIA | ARMY/ACSI | NAVY | AIR | JCS | SECDEF | NSA | NIC | AID | USIA | OCI | ONE | OCR | ORR | OBI | OO  |
| --------- | --- | --------- | ---- | --- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| STATE/DIR |     |           |      |     |     |        |     |     |     |      |     |     |     |     |     |     |

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

AAP-3

FORM 14 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 19 (15-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TDCS-3/536,942

IN 64876
PAGE 2

OMMITTEE OF THE PCV IN THE STATE OF ZULIA HAD BEEN DISSOLVED AS OF EARLY
3'63 AND A THREE MEMBER REGIONAL COMMAND COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED).

2. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCLANT CINCARIB.

END OF MESSAGE
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

AAP-3

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

CONFIDENTIAL

DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
STAFF MESSAGE DIVISION.
INCOMING MESSAGE

AF IN: 50955 (24 Feb 62) K/eld

ACTION: CIN-17 (18)

RC 41/24 FEB 62
RQ/RO/RQ
PRIORITY
231841Z
FM USAIRA MEXICO CITY
TO CSAF WASH DC
1127 USAF FAG FT BELVOIR VA//PROTECTED//
INFO CIARC ALBROOK AFB CZ
USAIRAS GUATEMALA BRAZIL VENEZUELA
BT

RETRANSMITTED TO: SAC, TAC,
CONAD, AFSC, MATS
(per req Mr Kerp-CIN-25Feb62)

A/D: ARMY-2, NAVY-2, CMC-7, JCS-45, OSD-15
OSD/SDLU-1, STATE-15, CIA-11, NSA-7
XPD-3, ISI-2, IDS-2 (112) (Risd by Mr Kerp-CIN-25Feb62)

CONFIDENTIAL XX CITE CHARLIE DASH NINE SGD HARRIS PARA
MILITARY REP OF EURHPEAN WESTERN NATION ACCREDITED MEXICO

REPORTED TWO TWO FEB HAVING RECD INFO FROM TWO DIFFERENT SOURCES

THAT CUBAN SHIPLOAD OF ARMS HAD DEPARTED EITHER SANTIAGO DE CUBA
OR BAHIA DE NIPE TWO XERO DEGREE FOUR FIVE MINUTES NORTH SEVEN FIVE
DEGREES FOUR XERO MINUTES WEST DURING WEEK OF ONE ONE TO ONE SEVEN
FEB PD SHIP REPORTEDLY HEADED FOR BRITISH GUIANA OR NORTHEAST BRAZIL
PD LOCAL EMB INTEL AGENCIES UNABLE CONFIRM PARA SCP DASH THREE
BT

> FOR AUTOMATICALLY RECLASSIFIED
> DOD DIR 5200.10

ACTION: AF, (ARMY ACSI)
INFO : DCSOP, ORD
DA IN 205836

AFHQ 0-309a

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 21


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# SECRET

The British consul in Santiago de Cuba has informed Washington
and the Governor of British Guiana that two alleged US citizens,
John Allrem Johnson, aged 53, and his wife Margaret Frances Johnson,
were leaving Cuba on 31 December on the Cuban vessel BAHIA DE TANAMA
destined for Georgetown, British Guiana. On board with them were 17
cases in their name, including two large wood crates understood to be
"very similar to those recently unloaded from a Soviet Union ship
in Santiago de Cube." The British consul notes the unlikelihood of
US citizens' leaving Cuba in this manner, and the resulting doubt as to
their real identities and intentions. (British Foreign Office to
Washington, No. 9759, 31 December, 1962 (SECRET))

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National. Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage, Laws,: Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba/British Guiana

REPORT NO. 00- К-3,210,102

SUBJECT Shipment of Weapons to British Guiana

DATE DISTR. 21 Feb 62

DATE OF INFO. Dec 1962

NO. PAGES One

PLACE & DATE ACQ. --; Dec 1962

REFERENCES CD/00 Case 36159 H2/05676/G5 Case 35662 78/IWW/DOM-81/CX

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: Cuban national, A 12 884 576, who arrived in the US on 3 Feb 1962.

Source is an electrical engineer and advisor to underground groups in Cuba.

[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

I was advised by a Cuban merchant marine officer that the Cuban freighter, "Bahia de Nipe" left Cuba for British Guiana on 22 Dec 1961 with a cargo shipment of weapons. The boxes containing this equipment were stored in the bottom of the ship's hold and covered with mattresses and canvas.

A cargo of sugar bags was placed on top of the weapons.

-end-

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 23


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# OUTGOING TELEGRAM Department of State

INDICATE, COLLECT
CHARGE TO

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

0 2 1 4 7

FEB 6 10 16 AM '63

UNCLASSIFIED MESSAGE REFERRING
TO THIS MESSAGE BY CITE NUMBER
WILL BE DESIGNATED EFTO

The Feb 8 edition of LIFE contains story on Cuba with following
caption under photo of Russian freighter:

ACTION: Embassy GEORGETOWN 286

QUOTE

But refugees aboard the Shirley Lykes said two ships put out from
Mariel (Cuba) only last week with holds loaded with weapons sent by
Castro to British Guiana. UNQUOTE

Would appreciate any available comment.

END

ACTION: STATE (ARMY ACSI)

INFO DCSOP, OSA, JCS
DA IN 827722

LIMITED OFFICIAL. USE

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS
COPY IS PROHIBITED
UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED".
000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# INCOMING TELEGRAM

## Department of State

C

54

Action

EUR

CONFIDENTIAL

1963

FROM: Georgetown

Control: 4682

Rec'd: February 7, 1963 12:57 PM

Info

SS

TO: Secretary of State

G

SAL

ARA

NO: 245, February 7, NOON

P

USIA

SCA

Reference: Department's 286 February 6.

NSC

INR

CIA

NSA

OSD

ARMY

NAVY

AIR

CMR

Neither harbor master nor shipping companies have any knowledge Cuban ships en route Georgetown. Guiana Import- Export agents for sales rice Cuba, states it is always notified as soon as rice ships leave Cuba so that necessary arrangements at RMB wharf can be made. It denies having receivéd any notice recently. Governor also reports negative results his inquiries.

CONGEN has had numerous inquiries AP story mentioned TOUSI 18. Appreciate any clarification (not for release to press) Department can give.

MELBY

TEK/18

CONFIDENTIAL

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 25


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

FBIS 84 OFFICIAL USE ONLY

PARIS AFP IN ENGLISH TO THE FAR EAST 1905 7 FEB 63 E

(EXCERPT) GEORGETOWN--BRITISH GUIANA IN A STATE OF NEAR PANIC
TODAY AFTER NEWSPAPERS AND RADIO STATIONS PUT OUT A
WASHINGTON NEWSPAPER REPORT THAT CUBA WAS SENDING TWO SHIPS
FULL OF SOVIET ARMS TO THIS COUNTRY. PREMIER CHEDDI JAGAN CALLED
THE REPORT FROM THE WASHINGTON EVENING STAR FANTASTIC AND UNFOUNDED.
A SPOKESMAN IN THE HOME AFFAIRS MINISTRY SAID THE GOVERNMENT
EXPECTED NO ARMS FROM THE SOVIET UNION OR CUBA.

7 FEB 749P FG/OP

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 26


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# OUTGOING TELEGRAM Department of State

INDICATE: COLLECT

CONFIDENTIAL

04289

CUBA

FEB 9 11 17 AM '63

59

Origia

ACTION: AmConGen GEORGETOWN 293

EUR

Info:

SS UrTel 245

SR intelligence

G Washington investigation agencies have no information to confirm

SP

SAL alleged munitions shipments from Cuba to Georgetown.

ARA

E Story originated with caption current edition *Life Magazine* to

STR effect two Russian ships carrying munitions from Mariel, Cuba to BG.

P

USIA O'Leary of *Washington Evening Star* apparently seized on *Life* story

SCA

INR as basis *Evening Star* article. Unlikely any responsible US official

CIA

NSA confirm story as O'Leary alleged in article.

OSD

ARMY If repeat if Department is asked by press, we plan say we have

AVY

AIR no information but are making inquiries.

RMR

END

RUSK

Drafted by:

EUR:ENA:RJTepper:ldd 2/8/63 Telegraphic transmission and classification approved by: EUR/BNA - M. Gordon Knox

Clearances:

INR - Mr. Packman INR/CS - Mr. Simmons.

EUR/P - Mr. McGowan

CONFIDENTIAL

CCA - Mr. Follestad
REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, US.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY British Guiana/Cuba

REPORT NO. 00-B-3,247,344

SUBJECT Jagan's Political-Economic Viewpoints/Ex- DATE DISTR. 11 Jan 63
propriation of Foreign Properties Linked
to Foreign Aic/Futility of Jagan's 5-Year NO. PAGES
Plan/Peoples Progressive Party Infiltration
of United Front/Arms Smuggling from Cuba/ REFERENCES
Filariasis Disease Common in Guiana Back
Country.

DATE OF
INFO. Thru Oct 62

PLACE & DATE ACQ. British Guiana/Thru Oct 62

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, executive in a US aluminum company.

Source has frequently traveled to and within British Guiana in connection with geological surveys for his company. He has known Jagan for about nine years, and on his latest trip had several conversations with Jagan.

1. On the basis of any conversations with Cheddi Jagan (mostly concerning possible investments by my company in British Guiana), I am convinced that he is not a Communist. In fact, Jagan does not know what he is. He is simply looking for anything new that will help to pull up his people quickly. In this context he sees Soviet and Chinese Comunism as the two principal Twentieth Century economic experiments --/and as economic experiments he is willing to try them.

2. In talking with me, Jagan has made clear that he is not a "Castro Type." He wants help from anybody. The one thing that might in the future seriously hinder his getting economic aid from the USSR is that he demands that aid be without strings.

3. Both Jagan and his Trade Minister, Frank Hubbard, have told we that Jagan would hesitate to do anything (such as confiscating foreign properties in an attempt to increase revenues) which would offend the US or the UN for fear of ruining any future chances of obtaining US or UN aid. Jagan is of course quite conscious that he is still under the UK and that it is therefore unconstitutiocal for him to expropriate anything. After British Guiana achieves independence, I am confident Jagan would not expropriate anything if he is getting aid from the US or the UN that is, until the money is spent. If at any point (after independence) Jagan is receiving no such aid and has no prospects of receiving such aid, then anything could happen. I would, however, temper this somewhat depressing estimate of Jagan by commenting that in 1953 when he entered office, he was something of a wild-eyed fanatic without direction. Since then he has matured considerably.

![signature]

4. The PPP capability for increasing the industrial wealth of British Guiana is hopeless. Jagan indiscriminately wants all kinds of factories. His "Five Year Plan" is no plan at all. In his eagerness to do something for British Guiana, Jagan thinks he ought to build any kind of factory that the country does not have. Whenever he thinks of something, he just tells a subordinate to add it to the Plan. But there is no one in the Jagan government who has done or can do the marketing research, etc., which is necessary for any such investment.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

| STATE | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | FBI | AEC |
| ----- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

INFORMATION REPORT

CONTROLLED

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 28


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

- 2-

00-B-3,247,344

5.  In the last elections Jagan ordered some of his (Indian) Peoples Progressive Party (PPP) supporters to join the United Front Party (UTP) in order to impress the world in general and the US in particular that democracy in British Guiana was working. By virtue of the fact that the UFP membership was "growing," it was "obvious" that Jagan was not a dictator. I was told this by two Indian Guianese who were working for Jagan.

6.  I was in British Guiana for about 12 months on my latest trip. Since much of this time was devoted to geological surveying in the hinterland, I was accompanied by an Indian Guianese doctor. A well- educated man of the upper-middle class, he told me that arms were being smuggled into the country from Cuba. He did not go into any detail on the subject, but he did mention that his sons, who were members of the Progressive Youth Organization (PYO) frequently brought arms into their home, kept them for a while, and then disposed of them. The doctor was so much concerned and pessimistic -- about the situation that he emigrated from the country shortly after I departed.

7.  Malaria is not a factor now. Even well into the interior there is less than 1 percent incidence. But anywhere away from the coast filariasis presents a problem. At first I did not believe it when my Indian Guianese doctor said that mosquito bites incurred in the day- time were harmless but mosquito bites at night would infect with filariasis. After several months in the back country I believed him. The disease seems to affect women more than men, causing women's legs to swell. But the disease's affect on men's sexual organs was not exactly encouraging. I never did understand why, but my doctor said that to be effective in detecting the disease a blood test must be made at night (preferably between 11 p.m. and 1 a.m.), and analyzed quickly. If filariasis is treated promptly, a man's sexual prowess can be saved. We found that the disease is very common throughout the country.

- end -

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

CONTROLLED DISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAD NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 29


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# INFORMATION EPORT
# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National. Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba/British Guiana
REPORT NO. 00-K-3,210,102

SUBJECT Shipment of Weapons to British Guiana
DATE DISTR. 21 Feb 62

NO. PAGES One

REFERENCES
CD/00 Case 36159 H2/05676/G5
Case 35662 78/IWW/DOM-81/CX

DATE OF
INFO. Dec 1962

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. --; Dec 1962

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: Cuban national, A 12 884 576, who arrived in the US on 3 Feb 1962.

Source is an electrical engineer and advisor to underground groups in Cuba.

[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

I was advised by a Cuban merchant marine officer that the Cuban freighter, "Bahia de Nipe" left Cuba for British Guiana on 22 Dec 1961 with a cargo shipment of weapons. The boxes containing this equipment were stored in the bottom of the ship's hold and covered with mattresses and canvas.

A cargo of sugar bags was placed on top of the weapons.

-end-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

COMMUNICATIONS

HW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 31


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET

COMUNICATIONS

There is little infonation available on the Castro/Commist communication notwork with Latin An Lea. Over the past years there are inverous reports indicating that commications are carried by visitors to and fron Cuba, that Cuban Thbassies cerve as comminication points for Castro/Communist subversiv in various countries, end that directions to mibversive mougo are transmitted by clandestino radio transmitters in Cuba. Preceding items on radio propaganda and propaganda shipme arms shipments, and the training of personnel in Cuba are closely related to commnications. Information on Commist organizations and the Comunist apparatus also are related to the question of communication.

There have been some references to instructions from Cuba; however, such evidence is not available and copies of those docwents inde evailable in the past would not withstand scrutiny.

TAB

1 Electronic Communications

Bis Tab contains three items: (1) A general coment on electrical communications; (2) An item indicating the use of asteur radio stations for comunications; and (3) A report of a clandestine receiving station in the Dominican Republic.

2 Documenta

This Tab contains an item referring to docments obtained from the plane crash in Feru. Initially, the Peruvien press and Peruvion officials indicated these documents proved Castro/Comamist sponsor-

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 32


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

chiy of a revolution in Brazil; however, the Brazilian Goverment has not taken public note of the document.

3 Couriers

This Tab contains ilustrative reports of travellers to and from Cuba who may act as couriers. This iten is closely related to information on individuals and groups travelling to Cina for training or propaganda.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 34


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET

## ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS

There are mumerous reports of a highly classified nature concerning electronics commmications between Cuba and the Bloc, within Cuba, and between Cuba and Latin America. Some reports infer that Prensa latina facilities my be used for other than news purposes and there are frequent reports of clandestine radio instructions to Latin Amerion fron Cuba and between olendretine stations in Latin America.

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 35


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIO05

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

CUBA

Central "Man" Radio Transmitting Station, Rancho Boyeros Airport, Habana Provirico (C)

19-20 January 1962

Rancho Boyeros, Jan 62
C-3
DUJ 316/37-1-62

30 January 1962

1 of 1

Kono

DUJ
DUJ-32-62

1. Sub-Goarce roports that the Government of Cuba had planned to inaugurato a in sateur radio transmitting station at the Rancho Boyeres Airport, south of Habana 0167, on the 19th or 20th of January 1962.

2. The purpose of the station was to be communication batweon Caba and Tegucigalpa, Honduras, on the 9077 frequency.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

OPNS BRANCH

WW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 36


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18. U.S.O. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Dominican Republic/Cuba
REPORT NO. CS-3/535,788

SUBJECT Clandestine Radio Receiving Station in Santo Domingo
DATE DISTR. 1 February 1963

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES RD

DATE OF INFO. 22 January 1963

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Dominican Republic, Santo Domingo 22 January 1963
FIELD REPORT NO. HDC-553

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: Foreign businessman (B) with good contacts in Dominican political circles. Appraisal of Content: 3.

One of the under-cover receiving stations for radio messages from Habana is believed to be in a house at Calle Espaillat 56. The house is occupied by Johnson (fnu), who has an electrician's repair shop there.

Headquarters Comment. Johnson (fnu) is probably identifiable with the Johnson (fnu) reported by another source as a Communist member of the Agrupacion Politica Catorce de Junio (APCJ - 14th of June Political Group). See CS-3/511,814, of 24 May 1962. Also see CS-3/528,287, of 14 November 1962, from an official British service, which reports on a clandestine group of pro-Castro Dominicans who are in radio contact with Habana from a repair shop in Santo Domingo.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 38


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET
NO FORCEM

The CIA station in Rio de Janeiro has reported that some efforts may be made to put pressure on President Goulart to publicly take some note of the Cuban intervention in Brazil's internal affairs, allegedly shown by some 16 pages of Spanish-language documents found in the Verig plane crash which carried a Cuban delegation to their deaths in November. The documents are considered by a Brasilian source who made then available to the CIA station to be "explosive, since they prove the Cubans are sponsoring revolution in Brazil." Paraphrases of those documente have appeared in the Lima press; but it is unlikely that President Goulart will give any support to publicizing them. (CIA, Rio de Janeiro, IN 43586, 2 January, SECRET MOTORN)

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 40


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# INFORMATION REPORT

## CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Paraguay/Cuba

REPORT NO. CS-3/536,454

SUBJECT Paraguayan Travelers to and From Cuba

DATE DISTR. 7 February 1963

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES RD

DATE OF INFO. December 1962 - 20 January 1963
PLACE & DATE ACQ. Paraguay, Asuncion (24 January 1963)
FIELD REPORT NO. HYA-833
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: Paraguayan security officer (B) from a member of the Paraguayan Communist Party (C). Appraisal of Content: 2

1. On about 20 January 1963 Cantero, a leader of the Partido Comunista Paraguayo (PCP Paraguayan Communist Party) in Paraguay, 1 met with five rural leaders of the PCP from the areas of Villarrica, Concepcion, Piribebuy, Tebycuarymi, and Guarambare. These leaders received political instructions from the PCP for their trip to Cuba, where they will receive military and political training in rural organization. Lopez (fnu)2 is the leader from Piribebuy, and Ignacio Acosta 3 is the leader from Tebycuarymi.

2. Federico Tatter, a retired ensign in the Paraguayan Navy. entered Paraguay from Cuba in the first half of December to assume military direction of the Frente Unido de Liberacion Nacional (FULNA - United Front for National Liberation).

3. Anibal Garcete4.bas returned to Paraguay from Cuba to organize the sugar-cane workers. Garcete is a PCP member masquerading as a member of the Colorado Party.

1. Field Comment. Cantero is the PCP pseudonym of a person whose true name is unknown.

Source Comments

2. Lopez was born about 1937.

3. Acosta is a cousin of Wigberto Acosta, a long-time member of the PCP


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
- 2 -
  CS-3/536,454

4. Comment. Wigberto Acosta was reported in June 1960 have been a PCP member active in the labor dispute in Tebycuarymi area involving the sugar cane worker's demand for higher salaries.

5. Source Comment. Iturbete was mentioned in confidential TCP correspon which time he was an officer in the Federation of Sugar Cane Workers.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET
NO FO...... SEM

On 4 December Brazilian President Goulart telephoned General Alves, commander of the First Army with headquarters in Rio de Janeiro and the highest ranking extreme leftist in the Brazilian armed forces. He told Alves to choose four or five junior officers of his absolute con- fidence to escort certain people who were arriving from Cuba via Bolivia.
Goulart said the people were coming with "much materiel." (CIA, Sao Paulo, IN 30353, 6 December, SECRET NOFORN)

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# SECRET
NO FOISEM

Eight Dominican pro-Castro leaders were aboard the Czech airlines flight to Cuba which transited Shannon Airport on 14 December, according to an official Irish service. The Dominicans included Maximo Lopez Molina, Tomas Parmenio Erickson, and Gustavo Ricart, leaders of the outlawed Dominican Populer Movement (MPD), one of the most ective pro-Communist groups in the Dominican Republic. The eight Dominicans were among the ten who were deported from the Dominican Republic to France earlier this year. Another source reported last November that the Cuban ambassador in Paris had a meeting with the ten Dominican deportees to discuss helping them travel to Cuba without passports. (CIA Dublin, TDCS-3/531,991, 21 December, SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

Premier Castro is to deliver the closing speech at the Congress
of Women of the Americas on 15 January in Havane. Havana Redio
announced that the congress, scheduled to begin 11 January, will be
attended by more than 200 delegates from Latin America, the U. 8.,
and Canada, as well as by guests from many other non-American countries.
Delegations from Communist China, Albania, Czechoslovakia, North Korea,
and North Vietnam arrived in Havana on 9 January. (FBIS 03 and 51,
10 January, OFFICIAL USE ONLY)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

![photo of an empty page with a sticker that says SABOTAGE]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# SABOTAGE

A number of acts of sabotage have been committed in various Latin American states. There is no conclusive evidence available to link these acts of sabotage with the Castro/Communist apparatus.

Portions on training indicate that sabotage is being taught to trainees in Cuba.

TAB

1 Reports of Sabotage

This Tab contains four items: (1) A report that Cuba is training personnel for sabotage missions in the U.S.; (2) A report that Dominicans are leaving Cuba to sabotage cane fields in the Dominican Republic; (3) A report on the controversial sabotage of the Maracaibo oil fields in Venezuela. (Not substantiated by evidence available to the U.S.); and (4) Report of an unsuccessful attempt to sabotage a bridge in Venezuela.

2 Terrorist Activities

This Tab contains an item reporting Castro/Communist inspired terrorist activities in Venezuela linked to the Maracaibo sabotage.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

![page number 1]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

An expert Cuban electrical technician in the Borjita sugar mill has told a former close associate who is now a regular clandestine source that Cuba is training personnel in the techniques of using explosives prior to sending them to the United States on sabotage missions. It is intended that such persons will go in the guise of enti-Communist refugees, and the sabotage will be so arranged that in some cases it will be taken to be merely accidents. The electrical technician added that there is a large Communist espionage ring operating with a ring in the United States across the border, with several plans already under way.

(CIA DDP IN 29517, 4 December, SECRET NOFORN)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

SECRETI
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

A Dominican exile in Cuba reportedly told a source who was there about mid-December that Dominican Communists are leaving Cube for the Dominican Republic to sabotage the cane fields there. (CIA, Panama City, I 48599, 11 January, SECRET NOFORD)





NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 50

SECRET
FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# Department of State

'COMING TELEGRAM

42-41 15 45 CONFIDENTIAL

Action Control: 1171
Rec'd: NOVEMBER 3, 1962
11:29 Ρ.Μ.
ARA
Info FROM: CARACAS
TO: Secretary of State
SS
G NO: 548, NOVEMBER 3, 9 P.M.
SP
SAL
10 NIACT
PR
P DEPARTMENT PASS CINCARIB, CINCLANT
IOP
INR
RMR FOREIGN MINISTER FALCON BRICENO INFORMS ME HE WILL ARRIVE WASHINGTON SUNDAY NIGHT TO MAKE SPECIAL SPEECH IN OAS/OC MONDAY RE CUBAN SITUATION UNDERSCORING CUBAN INSPIRED SUBVERSION AND SABOTAGE AGAINST VENEZUELA.

HE WILL PRESENT INTERCEPTED CABLE TO VENEZUELAN STUDENTS AND OTHER EVIDENCE WHICH HE_HOPES OBTAIN FROM INTERIOR MINISTRY. HE ASKS IF DEPARTMENT CAN PROVIDE HIM SUNDAY AT VENEZUELAN EMBASSY WITH TRANSCRIPT RAUL CASTRO'S STATEMENT AFTER MARACAIBO SABOTAGE IN WHICH PRESS CLAIMS. RAUL TOOK CUBAN CREDIT FOR INCIDENT.

SUGGEST DEPARTMENT MAKE THIS AND ALL OTHER USEFUL FBIS INTERCEPTS AS WELL OTHER EVIDENCE AVAILABLE TO HIM.

FALCON'S ARRIVAL NEW YORK AND WASHINGTON WILL BE AVAILABLE VENEZUELAN EMBASSY THERE. PLEASE EXTEND COURTESIES. HE PLANS STAY US ABOUT EIGHT DAYS.

STEWART

SMD:

NOTE: PASSED TO CINCARIB, CINCLANT 11/4/62.

MESSRS. MOSKOWITZ, BOWDLER AND ALLEN (ARA) NOTIFIED

12:10 Α.Μ., 11/4/62 TEM.

CONFIDENTIAL REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
(When Filled in)

Mr. Rowen has seen

VENEZUELA

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/537,176

CONTINUATION OF COMMUNIST TERRORIST ACTIVITIES

DATE DISTR. 13 FEBRUARY 1963

8 AND 12 FEBRUARY 1963

PRECEDENCE PRIORITY

VENEZUELA, CARACAS (13 FEBRUARY 1963)

REFERENCES IN 67419

FIELD REPORT NO. HVC 2655

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

PARA 1: FORMER POLICE OFFICIAL (C) WITH CONTACTS IN THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD; PARA 2: U.S. BUSINESSMAN (B) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN THE VENEZUELAN MILITARY.

1. ON THE EVENING OF 8 FEB 63 NATIONAL GUARD SOLDIERS WHO WERE PRO-

TECTING THE CARACAS-LA GUAIRA TURNPIKE SURPRISED A GROUP OF MEN AT THE ENTRANCE TO TUNNEL NUMBER 1 WHO WERE ATTEMPTING TO DESTROY TURNPIKE BRIDGE NUMBER 1. FIRE WAS EXCHANGED FOR ABOUT THIRTY MINUTES BETWEEN THE SOLDIERS AND THE MEN IN THE TUNNEL AND LATER A BOX CONTAINING ABOUT 100 POUNDS OF DYNAMITE WAS FOUND BELOW THE BRIDGE.

2. TWO CAR LOADS OF GUERILLAS ATTACKED THE NATIONAL GUARD HEADQUARTERS AT DABAJURO, A PIPE LINE OUTPOST BETWEEN AMUAY, IN THE PARAGUANA PENINSULA AND LAKE MARACAIBO, STATE OF ZULIA, IN WESTERN VENEZUELA, ON 12 FEB. ABOUT 100 SHOTS WERE EXCHANGED BUT ALL THE GUERILLAS ESCAPED.

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
DA IN 16985

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TDCS -3/537,176

IN 67419

PAGE 2

3. (FIELD COMMENT: TERRORIST ACTIVITIES HAVE BEEN INCREASING IN VENEZUELA. SEVERAL MEMBERS OF THE FUERZAS ARMADAS DE LIBERACION NACIONAL (FALN, ARMED FORCES OF NATIONAL LIBERATION) TOOK TEMPORARY POSSESION OF THE OFFICE OF THE PREFECT IN THE TOWN OF SAN DIEGO DE LOS ALTOS, ABOUT 20 MILES FROM CARACAS, ON 4 FEB. THEY TIED UP THE POLICEMEN ON GUARD, STOLE A FEW RIFLES, AND PAINTED THE WALLS WITH ANTI-GOVERNMENT SLOGANS. ON 5 FEB, AN ATTACK WAS MADE ON THE HOME OF COLONEL JOSE ANTONIO GONZALEZ, COMMANDER OF THE MILITARY TRIBUNAL, LOCATED IN A WELL-TO-DO RESIDENTIAL AREA OF CARACAS. THIS WAS FOLLOWED BY ANOTHER ATTACK ON 12 FEB WHICH RESULTED IN THE GOVERNMENT ESTABLISHING ROAD CLOCKS AND SENDING TROOPS AND POLICE INTO THE AREA. ON THE MORNING OF 9 FEB AN ARMED ATTACK WAS MADE ON THE AMERICAN (PORTION GARBLED WILL FWD) WHERE OFFICES WERE SET ON FIRE AND EQUIPMENT DESTROYED, AND ON THE NIGHT OF 9 FEB SEARS WAREHOUSE IN ANTIMANO WAS COMPLETELY DESTROYED BY MEMBERS OF THE FALN, THREE BRIDGES ON THE PAN AMERICAN HIGHWAY, BARQUISIMETO AREA, STATE OF LARA, WERE DAMAGED BY BOMBS.

ON 12 FEB AND AN ATTEMPT WAS MADE ON THAT DAY TO BLOW UP A CREOLE OIL LINE IN CATIA LA MAG, FEDERAL DISTRICT, BUT ONLY ONE SMALL BOMB EXPLODED CAUSING MINOR DAMAGES).

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCLANT CINCARIB.

*5. HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: MISSING PORTION WILL BE DISSEMINATED ONLY IF IT MATERIALLY AFFECTS THE SENSE OF THIS REPORT.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

ACTION: ACSI, NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD
INFO: DOSOP

DA IN 16985

000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 54


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# Extremist And Police Activities In Venezuela

Venezuela has been afflicted over the past several months with a rash of Castro-Communist terrorist actions. Many incidents, involving shootings and robberies, are connected with the Movement of the Revolutionary Left, the Venezuelan Communist Party, and the Armed Forces of National Liberation the Castro-Communist group credited with the destruction at the Maracaibo oil fields during the Cuban crisis. These activities are probably designed to discredit and weaken the Betancourt Government.

The police have demonstrated considerable proficiency in preventing major outbreaks and in acting rapidly to arrest terrorists. They have rounded up extremists responsible for the holdup and looting of a printing supply warehouse and the burning of the Dupont paint warehouse and have captured the Communist leader of guerrilla bands operating in the Falcon area of northwestern Venezuela.

(CONFIDENTIAL)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

> [Figure] Communist Organization for Latin America

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 56


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

TOP SECRET

# COMMUNIST ORGANIZATION FOR LATIN AMERICA

Information on the Communist apparatus for Latin America and its relationship with Cuba and the Sino Soviet Bloc is largely derived from highly classified intelligence which is provided separately. From the reports contained in this section, it may be concluded that the organizational links vary from country to country depending upon, among other factors, the legal status of the Communist party, whether diplomatic representation is located in a country, the relative strength of Communist alliances with other leftist or opposition parties, and the character of current government leadership in these countries. Next attached is an unclassified report prepared in October for release as a White Paper. Although this paper was not released due to the missile crisis, it represents an agreed summary (State, DOD, CIA and USIA) of the Communist apparatus in Latin America. The report contains briefs on Communist activities in each of the Latin American countries.

The reports vary with respect to the country priority for Castro/ Communist action in Latin America. Brasil, Venezuela, and British Guiana are mentioned most frequently as the likely priority targets. There are also conflicting reports on the relative independence of Castro from the Soviet Union and indications that the publicized Sino Soviet disagreements are reflected in local Communist organizations throughout Latin America.

TAB 1 Cuban Relationships and Policies Towerd Latin America

This teb conteins relevant excerpts from the draft MIE now under preparation. (USIB is meeting on this item and

TOP SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 57


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

TOP SECRET

the most current agreed positions will be made available to you in the event there is any significant change.) Also included at this tab are a number of significant reports indicating the probable orientation of Castro/Communist actions directed toward Latin America. The last item at this tab sumarizes the unsuccessful armed incursions of 1959 (Panama, Nicaragua, and Dominican Republic).

TAB 2

Soviet Activities and Conflicts

This teb contains a number of items indicating possible Cuban-Soviet conflicts as reflected in Latin America. The last two items reflect the concern attached to the possible establishment of a Soviet fishing port in Cuba.

TAB 3

Situation in Latin America

This tab contains a number of current situation and pertinent background reports on various Latin American countries in the following order: Central America, Panama and Mexico; Bolivia; Brasil (4); Colombia Costa Rica; Ecuador; Haiti; Mexico; Panama; Peru (4); and Venezuela (3).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

4 October 1962

MEMORANDUM: Cuban Subversion in Other Latin American Countries

I. General Summary

1. The Castro regime denies that material support is being given any anti-regime group outside Cuba. Castra claims that such assistance is unnecessary since the people of these countries, thanks to Cuba's example, are becoming aware of their revolutionary potential. The publicly stated position of the Cuban leaders is that their country, "the first socialist state in America," has become the example, the "beacon". In fact, however, Cuba's moral and material support to Coumanist and Communist-influenced groups has been felt in varying degrees in every one of the 19 other Latin American republics. The Castro regime has become an effective instrument of the Sino-Soviet effort to weaken and eventually destroy democratic political institutions in Latin America.

2. Cuban subversion has become more subtle since 1959, when a Cuban-mounted expeditionary force was launched against the Dominican Republic and smaller "invasion forces" left Cuba for abortive attacks on the governments of Panama, Nicaragua, and Haiti. Now Cuban subversive efforts generally fall in three categories:

a. The indoctrination and training of hundreds of Latin Americans in Cuba;

b. The intensive propaganda beamed at Latin America by Cuban radio stations and circulated through printed material and the Cuban-cubsidized international "news" agency, and;

c. The covert material support given subversive groups in other countries.

II. Cuban Subversive Programs

A. Training of Latin Americans in Cuba:

3. Fidel Castro announced on 9 June 1961 that his government would grant 1,000 scholarships to "poor students" from other Latin American countries for the next school term and 100 scholarships to students from other countries of the world. Hundreds of young Latin Americans have been subjected to Communist indoctrination. In addition to whatever formal training they receive in Juhe, many of them receive training in guerrilla warfare and other techniques of revolution.

4. Cuban refugees who have arrived recently in the United States have provided detailed information on the training programs offered to some of these young Latin Americans.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

a. One refugee, a deserter from Castro's army, reported from personal knowledge that in late 1961 there were a number of students from Chile, Ecuador, Argentina, Guatemala, end Brazil living in a Havana suburb who regularly attended classes in Marxism-Leninism, propaganda techniques, and other subjects to prepare them for active revolutionary roles in their homelands. He reported that those male students who were between 16 and 20 years of age were sent as part of their training to the Minas del Frio training center in Oriente province. During this phase of their training they received familiarization in the use of small erms and hiked to the top of Cuba's highest mountain, Pico Turquino, in the Sierra Maestra, the locale of Castro's guerrilla varfare against the Batista dictatorship.

b. Another refugee, who lived in Oriente province, learned from conversations with militia-wen in the area and from Latinn Americans training there that continuous training of students from other Latin American countries is going on at Les Arenas, Oriente. The trainees receive instruction in military tactics, guerrilla verfare, subversion, sobotage, propaganda, and Communist ideology. The refugee did not know how many Latin Americans were involved, but believed the duration of each course was about eight weeks, after which another group replaced the one that had been training.

5. Much of the travel of Latin American students to Cuba for training and indoctrination is handled by the Instituto Cubano de Amistad con los Pueblos (ICAP - Cuban Institute for Friendship with Feoples).

6. Cuve is also a major takeoff point for Latin Americans traveling to and from the Sino-Soviet bloc. Over 400 Latin Americans returned from last July's Communist-sponsored Youth Festival in Helsinki aboard a Soviet passenger vessel with the 400-man Cuban delegation. They disembarked in Havana and stayed in Cuba some weeks before some of them began returning to their home countries. Others may well be remaining in Cuba for some tine.

B. Cuban Propaganda:

7. International broadcasts by Cuban radio stations maintain a relatively constant propaganda level at all times, with regularly scheduled and special broadcasts to specific countries as well as general transmissions to all of Latin America. The general theme of all these broadcasts is that "the Cuban example" is awakening the "people" of Latin America to the opportunity for revolutionary action against the "corrupt" regimes in power and against "Yankee imperialism" which allegedly supports them.

8. There are regular programs beamed by Havana radio to Nicaragus, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Peru, and Honduras. They are all subversive in content and frequently incite to rebellion. These programs to specific countries are apparently directed and produced with the guidance of exiles from the countries concerned resident in Cuba.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

9. The program to the Dominican Republic, for instance, is announced as the program of the Dominican Liberation Movement (MLD), and the program is entitled Patria Libre. At present, Radio Havana beams the 20 minute Patria Libre program to the Dominican Republic on Thursdays and Saturdays. Just prior to the program, the Radio Havane announcer explains that the station is making its facilities available to the MLD for its program. There are some areas in the Dominican Republic where, due to the absence of local radio stations, the Cuban broadcasts are the only ones heard. Last July, the subversive content of these broadcasts to the Dominican Republic led the Dominican government to protest to the Organization of American States.

10. The content of such broadcasts is exemplified in the stated goals of the "Voice of Revolutionary Nicaragua," the program which is regularly beaned by Redio Havana to Nicaragua. On 31 August this program celebrated its first anniversary by repeating its original statement of its purposes:

"The Voice of Revolutionary Nicaragua hes set itself the goal of contributing to pointing out the real way to Nicaragua" s liberation from the dominion of Yankee imperialism and the Somoza tyranny. Elections (scheduled for next February to choose President Somoza's successor) with the Somozas in pover, and under the State Department's economic and political control of Nicaragua, will be a farce. Without. a prior revolutionary overthrow of the Somoza tyremy there can be no free elections in Nicaragua nor can a popular government be established. This program will be at the service of the revolutionaries and against the electioneers... The Voice of Revolutionary Nicaragus will defend the Cuban revolution because it is an important part of the Latin American people's liberating revolution."

11. Cuban propaganda is also disseminated through the offices of Presna Latins, the Cuban-subsidized international "news agency" which has close working relations with TASS, the New China News Agency, and other propagande medie for the Sino-Soviet bloc.

12. Cuban printed material is circulated throughout the hemisphere; Che Guevara's book on guerrilla warfare has received wide distribution. Periodically, the Mexican government, most recently last August, has been obliged to confiscate large quantities of propanganda materials from Latin Americans passing through that country enroute from Cuba to their homelands.

C. Cuben covert support for subversive groups:

13. Cuban covert support for Communist or pro-Communist groups in other Latin American countries is provided in a number of ways. In the five Latin American countries where Cuban diplomatic missions are still resident (Mexico, Brazil, Uruguay, Chile, and Bolivia), these missions have often been the channel. The Cuban embassy in Mexico is known to have provided


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

frequent assistance to exiles from Guatemala, Nicaragua, and other Central
American countries living in Mexico. In other instances, assistance is
provided through travelers coming from Cuba and through Prensa Latina
representatives.

14. The assistance is usually financial. The Cubans appear to have
    been careful since 1959 to avoid being caught in a blatant act of subversion
    that could be used to justify concerted inter-American action. Financial
    assistance is often just as useful and much less risky than actual weapons
    deliveries. In a number of American countries, small arms and other weapons
    are available for a price. Unscrupulous or cureless arms dealers in the US
    have also contributed to the arms traffic from which pro-Castro groups have
    benefitted, directly or indirectly.

15. As the following country-by-country rundown indicates, Cuban support
    for subversive activity has affected in varying degrees every one of the 19
    other Latin American countries.

a. Argentina: Ernesto "Che" Guevara, an Argentine by birth,
has retained his deep interest in Argentina's political affairs. On 25 May,
the Argentine national holiday, he addressed the group of Argentine citizens
resident in Cuba and told them that he hoped that next year they would be
celebrating in Argentine under "the flag of socialism." At another point
in this address he said: "Our revolution is one which needs to expand its
ideas...and other people are helping us. Let the other peoples of the hemisphere
get angry and take up arms or seize power and aid us in this task which is
the task of the entire hemisphere and of humanity."

The Argentine community in Cuba last April organized the
"Cuban-Argentine Friendship Institute" with headquarters in Havana. One
of the leaders is John William Cooke, who was for a time chief of former
Argentine dictator Peron's political machine in Argentina. Cooke continues
active in that faction of the Peronista party which seeks concerted action
with the Argentine Communists. Cooke maintains regular contact with sympathizers
inside and outside Argentina through travelers and through his wife,
Alicia Eguren de Cooke, a resident of Montevideo, Uruguay, who apparently
has regular means of communication with individuals in Argentina. Argentine
citizens have been recruited through this channel to go to Cuba for training.
There are also strong indications that terrorist activities by Argentine
Peronists and Communists have been encouraged and perhaps assisted through
this channel.

Frio Prior to the diplomatic break between Argentina and Cuba
last February, the Cuban embassy in Buenos Aires provided financial assistance
to anti-government groups there. An Argentine journalist who has contacts in
the Communist party there reported last December, for instance, that the
Argentine Communist party had received the sum of 50,000 pesos from the
Cuban embassy as a contribution to the railway workers who were then on
strike in the province of Cordoba.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

Though the Cuban embassy is no longer in Buenos Aires, Cuban clandestine assistance to Argentine Peronist-Communist groups continues. On 19 July of this year the federal police in Buenos Aires reported the unearthing of a center of Communist and Peronist activities in the capital. Two Buenos Aires policemen were shot and killed at a surburban warehouse in June. Investigations revealed that a quantity of explosives and propaganda were stored in the warehouse. The trail led to the arrest of one Jose Maria Aponte, a journalist and known Peronist activist, and one Mario Massi, owner of the firm which owned the warehouse. It was revealed that Massi had been maintaining contact with Cuban Communists, with John William Cooke, and with an unidentified woman associated with the Cuban embassy in Uruguay who was probably Alicia Eguren de Cooke referred to above. According to the Argentine police investigation, some 150 Argentine citizens had been sent from Argentina to Cuba (through Uruguay and Mexico) for training in guerrilla warfare. On their return to Argentina, these men were to be used in planned activities in the provinces of Formosa, Tucuman, Salta, and the wooded areas of eastern Argentina. A number of other individuals were apprehended by the Argentine police in connection with the subversive activity revealed in these investigations.

b. Bolivia: Bolivia has been the recipient of special Cuban attentions. The number of Bolivians receiving "scholarships" in Cuba this year--between 130 and 150-- appears disproportionately high. The Bolivian government felt obliged to request the departure of Cuban Ambassador Tabares in 1960 and of Cuban Charge Garcia Trians in 1961 for blatent intervention in internal Bolivian affairs, including support for Bolivian Communists and attempts to incite extreme leftist members of the governing MNR party to leave the party. In June 1961, the Bolivian government published a series of documents linking the Cuban embassy with a Communist conspiracy to seize control of the government. One of these documents, a statement by an arrested Bolivian agitator who had been in close contact with the Cuban embassy, gave the names of a number of Bolivians who had received financial support from the Cuban embassy. This evidence was used to justify the request for the Cuban charge's recall.

The present Cuban charge in Bolivia, Ramon Aja, has also been active though perhaps a bit more discreet than his predecessors. He has been particularly energetic in cultivating relations with Bolivien campesinos. The peasant union in the Cliza Valley of Bolivia has been reported to be the recipient of Cuban financial assistance.

c. Brazil: During the past two years the Castro regime has developed increasingly close ties with Francisco Juliao, self-proclaimed Marxist and leader of the Peasant Leagues in the troubled northeast region of Brazil. Juliao, whose wife and children are resident in Cuba, has traveled there on several occasions, and a number of his associates and rank - and-file members of the Leagues have gone to Cube for agricultural training which is undoubtedly heavily larded with ideological indoctrination. Transportation direct from northeast Brazil to Cuba has been provided by Bubana airlines on at least one occasion. Circumstantial evidence strongly suggests that Juliao has received financial assistance for his movement from the Cuban government. Brazilian Communist leaders have privately stated, in


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

fact, that Juliao's Peasant Leagues have received not only money but also shipments of small arms from Cuba. These Brazilian Communist leaders also said that the reason Juliao sent his family to Cuba was his fear that they might be endangered in the civil war he expects to erupt shortly in Brazil.

The Cuban government has also during the past year cultivated particularly close relations with leaders of the dissident Communist Party of Brazil (CPB). One of the CPB leaders who had visited Cuba last May told a friend of a long conversation he had had with Fidel Castro in late May. Castro expressed identity of feeling with the dissident Brazilian Communists and criticized the regular Communist party for its failure "to take a strong revolutionary line" in accordance with the decision of the 22nd party congress of the Communist party of the Soviet Union. Castro approved the insurrectionary policy of the CPB and urged the leaders to organize guerrilla activities and start the revolutionary movement in Brazil "as soon as possible." Castro advised them that government reprisals against revolutionary action in Brazil would serve only to increase populer dis- content in Brazil and swell the ranks of the revolutionaries. He advised CPB leaders to give special emphasis to securing as wide a base as possible among agricultural workers and the inhabitants of rural areas.

The Cuban embassy in Rio de Janeiro, like Cuban embassies elsewhere in Latin America, has been a source of assistance to Communist and pro-Communist elements. Last May leaks to the Brazilian press reported dis- cussions in the Brazilian cabinet on the subversive activities being directed by Cuban ambassador Joaquin Hernandez Arnas. The Navy and Army Ministers are reported to have expressed particular concern over Hernandez' activities.

d. Chilê: Senator Salvador Allende, leader of Chile's Communist-dominated popular front and a leading presidential aspirant, has made at least two trips to Cuba.

The Cuban embassy in Santiago is the source of propaganda support for pro-Communist groups, mostly those associated with Allende, who are intent on coming to power in Chile through elections or revolution. Orlando Prendes, cultural attache of the Cuban embassy, is known to be super- vising the printing of Cuban propaganda on a clandestine printing press in the home of Julio Bocanegra, who also prints propaganda for the Chilean Communist party. This activity has been going on for some time. As long ago as Aggust, 1961, Chilean officials investigating political agitation and resulting unrest in the Salamanca area learned that after a visit to the area by a Cuban diplomat the previous month, pro-Cuban propaganda was being distributed in the area, and Communists and pro-Communists there were saying "The mountains of Salamanca are going to be the Chilean Sierra Maestra."

Last March, when Cuban Minister of Education Armando Hart went to Chile for an international conference he took with him several sacks of propaganda.

e. Colombia: The United Front for Revolutionary Action (FUAR), organized early this year by Colombian extremists, is believed to have received financial assistance from Cuba to promote its objective of creating a guerrilla movement aimed at the overthrow of the government. A Colombian


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

citizen who has contacts among FUAR members reported last June that Fidel
Castro had just given the group $15,000 and promised further financial
aid semi-annually. Gloria Gaitan de Valencia, the wife of a FUAR leader
and the daughter of the Colombian leader Gaitan whose assassination in
1948 sparked the disastrous Bogota rioting, is a long-time personal friend
of Fidel Castro. He has visited Cuba frequently and probably returns to
Colombia with specific advice and assistance from the Cuban government.
The FUAR has succeeded in drawing members from the extremist wing of the
regular Colombian Communist party who are dissatisfied with that party's
reluctance to engage in ipen revolutionary action.

f. Costa Rica: The small Costa Rican Communist party, the
Popular Vanguard party (PVP), is charged by the Cuban government with the
selection of young men to be trained in Cuba. Riboberto Carmona and Jose
Murillo, PVP members, left Costa Rica last June for training under this
program, and PVP leaders had plans for organizing guerrilla training programs
in Costa Rica under the direction of the Costa Ricans who had received training
in Cuba.

g. The Dominican Republic: The provisional Council of State,
which is preparing the country for its first free elections this December
in more than 30 years, has been a major target for Cuban subversion. A
cadre of Dominican Communists is headquartered in Cuba, and elandestine con-
tact is probably maintained with sympathizers inside the Doninican Republic.
Broadcasts to the Dominican Republic from Cuba have helped incite the
frequent riots in Santo Domingo. The fact that broadcasts from Cuba have on
occasion referred to very recent events in the Dominican Republic strongly
suggests the presence of clandestine radio contacts between the two countries.

h. Ecuador: The Communist party of Ecuador has formed the
nucleus of a small guerrilla organization. This group was drawn largely from
the pro-Castro Revolutionary Union of Ecuadorean Youth (UPJE), which was
involved in a two-day battle with government forces last April. The leader
of the April affair, as well as several other Ecuadoreans involved in sub-
versive activities, has received guerrilla training in Cuba. A URJE leader
told a friend last June that this organization has so far in 1962 received
$22,000 in financial aid from the Cuban government.

Manuel Araujo Hidalgo, pro-Communist former Ecuadorean Minister
of Interior who has visited Cuba and who recently traveled in Communist
China, appears to be working with the URJE. He is reported to have received
a considerable amount of money from the Cuban government for his efforta,
according to a private statement by the URJE leader.

i. El Salvadort On 1 March 1961, the Salvadoran government
broke relations with the Castro regime after it had received evidence of
conversation between the Cuban charge, Roberto Lassalle, and leading Salvadoran
Communists in which Lessale urged increased revolutionary activity.

j. Guatemala: On 5 March 1962, a Cuban arrived in Mexico with a
message for a leader then in Mexico of the Guatemalan Communist-influenced


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

13 November group, which had recently engaged in guerrilla activity in
Guatemala. The Cuban gave him $4,000 which he said was the first install-
ment of a total of $10,000 to be used to establish a new guerrilla front
in Guatemala. On 8 March, Castro's emissary gave the Guatemalans the balanne
of the $10,000 and told one of the 13 November leaders that the decision to
provide them with the money was taken by Fidel Castro personally. Castro,
he said, had sent instructions that the group did not have to account for how
the money was spent, that no strings were attached, and that he hopes they
are successful so he can provide them with additional assistance.. Leter the
Cuban emissary met with leaders in Mexico of the orthodox Guatemalan
Communist party. These Guatemalan Communists had apparently complained that
the Cuban money was not going to them. They were told that Castro wanted
the money to go to the 13 November group because this group had demonstrated
its capacity to fight the Guatemalan government, a capacity which the
Guatemalan Communists had not shown. The Cuban said: "It is not a matter
of standing around with Arab fatalisn waiting for events to take place---
We should act efficiently so as to precipitate the death of imperialism.
Because of this we are ready to help anyone who may decide to struggle against
imperialism anywhere."

Cuban propaganda media have sought through publicizing the
activities of the 13 November group to increase its prestige and chances for
success. A Prensa Latins reporter published an alleged interview with
13 November leader Yon Sosa.

k. Haiti: A cadre of Haitian Communists led by Rene Depestre is
resident in Cuba, and many thousands of Haitian citizens living in eastern
Cuba are now being subjected to Comunist regimentation and indoctrination.

l. Honduras: Prior to the break in Cuban-Honduran diplomatic
relations in April 1961, Cuban personnel under the cover of consular and
diplomatic offices engaged in proselyting in the north coast region of
Honduras. Honduras now is the target of a particularly vicious reguler radio
program beamed especially to Honduras by Radio Havana. Many Hondurans are
in Cuba under the "Scholarship" program.

m. Mexico: The Cuban embassy in Mexico City, the consulate in
Merida, end the "Cuban-Mexican Cultural Center" in Merida have all
engaged in propaganda activities designed to encourage the pro-communist cause
in Mexico, particularly the Communist-influenced National Liberation Move-
ment (MLN). Former Cuban erbassador in Mexico Portuondo is reported by people
in close contact with MLN leaders to have concluded an agreement whereby
some of the money sent by Havana to cover the expense of the embassy is ear-
marked as a contribution to the MLN. Mexican officials were disturbed at the
participation of Cuban embassy officials in inciting the anti-US demon-
strations by Mexican students in July and August 1960. Mexican authorities
have periodically impounded quantities of Cuban propaganda being sent through
Mexico to other Latin American countries. The most importent aspect of
Mexico in Cuban propaganda and subversive operations in Latin America is its
use by the Cubans as a way station or jumping off place between Cuba itself
and the rest of Latin America.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

n. Nicaragua: A cadre of Nicaraguan Communists is based in Cuba. Contact between them and pro-Castro Nicaraguans in Nicaragua and in exile in other countries of the Caribbean area is maintained at least on a sporedic basis. A number of Nicaraguans periodically have traveled to Cuba and some have received training there in guerrilla tactics. Reliable reports indicate that some of these Cuba-trained Nicaraguans have been among the small guerrilla bands that have infiltrated Nicaragua across the largely un-guarded Hondruen border. The Nicaraguan government is the target of a regularly broadcast Radio Havana program to Nicaragua which is announced as the program of "free Nicaraguans."

0. Panama: Cuban financial assistance is believed to be channeled to the pro-Communist National Action Vanguard (VAN) in Panama. One of the VAN leaders, Deputy Thelma King, is a frequent traveler to Cuba end claims to be a personal friend of Fidel Castro.

p. Paraguay: Paraguayen exißes in Uruguay and Brazil have received Cuban financial assistance. Four members of the United Front for National Liberation (FULNA), a Communist Paraguayan exile group in Uruguay, receive the equivalent of $230 monthly each from the Cuban embassy in Uruguay to finance clandestine pro-Castro activities in Uruguay, according to a Paraguayan exile in Uruguay who is in close touch with FULNA.

q. Peru: At least eight Peruvians traveled to Cuba by way of Mexico last June to receive training and indoctrination in that country. Other Peruvian Communists or pro-Communists have long been in Cuba and a regularly broadcast Radio Havana program is beaned to Peru.

r. Uruguay: The Cuban embassy in Montevideo has been engaged in promoting pro-Castro propaganda. In January 1961 the Uruguayan government was obliged to declare the Cuban ambassador persona non grata for intervening in internal Uruguayan affairs.

s. Venezuela: The Castro regime has been extremely vitriolic in its propagande blasts against the Betancourt administration in Venezuela. Cuban assistance has been channeled to members of the militant opposition Leftist Revolutionary Movement (MIR), which is attempting to develop a guerrilla movement in Venezuela with the aid of its ally, the regular Venezuelan Communist party. While there is little evidence to indicate direct Cuban involvement in this Communist effort, a significant number of the leading figures involved, including Fabricio Ojeda, are known to have traveled to Cuba, where they probably received financial and other assistance in addition to official encouragement and propaganda support for their activities.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

![Page 68]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

SECRET

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NIE 85-63, 4 FEBRUARY 1963

Policies Toward Latin America

42. Here Castro has more capability for independent action than in any other field except the internal politics of Cuba. Castro is deeply committed to a policy of armed insurrection throughout Latin America. Because of his own experience he has a deep-seated belief that only through insurrection can revolution be promoted in Latin America. Further, he apparently believes that a successful revolution in another Latin American country would give great impetus to the revolutionary movement and would also consolidate his own regime in Cuba. In trying to foment insurrections, he apparently does not believe it crucial that he cannot now give direct military assistance to them, nor does he seem to consider it important whether he has or has not Soviet support. For the Soviets, however, such an inflexible approach smacks of the Chinese position and causes great problems in dealing with other Latin American Communists. Most important, however, it is probable that the Soviets believe such a posture will damage Soviet prospects for penetration of Latin America and inevitably bring about a confrontation with the US.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

SECRET

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NIE 85-63, 4 FEBRUARY 1963

18. Cuban overseas military capabilities remain severely limited by lack of the requisite air or sea lift. The Cubans could probably not undertake an overseas operation on a saale larger than one battalion. For political as well as military reasons, the Castro regime is most unlikely to undertake military operations of this nature. It would prefer to concentrate on rendering clandestine support to local insurgents.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SECRET

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NIE 85-63, 4 FEBRUARY 1963

31. The decline of his prestige has at least for the moment reduced Castro's capability for subverting popular groups and moving them into action against their own governments and against US interests. Local *fidelistas* have encountered greater difficulty in mobilizing mass support for anti-government strikes and demonstrations on other than local issues.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SECRET

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NIE 85-63, 4 FEBRUARY 1963

32. Nonetheless, Castro continues his appeal for revolution in Latin America on the Cuban model. Those Latin Americans who are committed to violent revolution continue to look to Castro for help, particularly from his training program in Cuba and his large-scale dissemination of printed and broadcast propaganda. Communist agitators are concentrating their efforts increasingly in rural areas, as they have done in Peru recently. In addition, there has been an increase in sabotage and other violence perpetrated by extremists, of the sort not requiring the participation of large popular groups, yet designed to provoke drastic countermeasures by governments and to increase popular anti-government sentiment. These widespread activities have demonstrated that the ability of local Communists to engage in terrorist and subversive activities and their willingness to accept Cuban and Soviet support do not dpend upon Castro-s prestige or upon their opinion of his doctrines and policies.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

SECRET

Che Guevara's mother, who lives in Argentina, told a clandestine
source in mid-December that during her recent visit to Cuba her son
told her that Cuban leaders now feel they will have to rely more end
more on their own efforts to promote Communist penetration in South
America. Guerrillas vill be used on a large scale after they have
received training in Cuba, Guevara said. He explained to his mother that
this is necessary since both he and Castro feel Khrushchev "let them
down" and has no further interest in spreading Commamiem in South America.
Guevara added that he and Castro believe they and the Chinese are
better Communists than Khrushchev. (CIA DD/P Buenos Aires, 19 December,
SECRET)

Comment: This report is consistent with recent public speeches by
Guevara which have emphasized the important role of Cuba with respect
to the "anti-imperialist revolution" in Latin America. (SECRET)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

# SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CIA Report 21 Dec 62 Rome

Translation of report dated 6 Dec 62 from Italian Embassy Havana to Foreign Ministry in Rome. "As I noted in my 9 November report is is difficult for Castro to remain calm. Therefore the revolutionary regime will continue with all means at its disposition to disseminate subversive propaganda in the whole continent, as demonstrated by the fact that all the states of Latin America (including Mexico) are taking strong measures against the dissemination of this propaganda. But it is doubtful that today Castro can do much more and that/constitutes a real menace to the security of other countries, if only because he lacks the necessary funds. I tend to share the opinion of the Ambassador to Brazil that the Cuban leaders are trying to concentrate all their subversive efforts in one country, and that they have selected Venezuela for various reasons, including the old ill feeling between Castro and Betancourt. I note in passing that, according to what was told me by the aforementioned Ambassador, during the recent meeting of the OAS the Venezuelan representative accused the Cubans of promoting the recent attempts in his country but, when asked to furnish proof, he was unable to do so."

SECRET (NOFORN) (CONTROLLED DISSEMINATION)

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 74

SECRET NO FOREIGN DI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

SECREL

A relative of a leading Communist in Cuba (who has previously given reliable advance information of important developments) expressed the opinion on 30 November that there will be revolte in Caribbean countries which will masquerade as "national revolutions" so as to negate the accuastion of Cuban complicity. In fact, however, these revolutions will be directed from Cuba through revolutionaries from various countries who are now being trained in Cuba. (CIA DD/P IN 48717, 12 January, SECRET)

Comment: This points up what is probably the most effective means of Cuban subversion in Latin America - the training of hundreds and perhaps thousands of Latin Americans in Cuba. (SECRET)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

# FOREIGN DISSEM

The recent spate of public addresses by leading Cuban officials on the subject of insurrection in other Latin American countries reflects a more aggressive stance than prior to the "missile crisis" and suggests that a decision to step up Cuban support for subversive groups in other Latin American countries may be under discussion within the inner circle of Cuban leaders.

Che Guevara and Education Minister Armando Hart have been in the forefront since Late November in publicly expressing the view that the only road to the "liberation" of the Latin American peoples is the road of insurrection. Fidel Castro's earlier public line had been to deny the necessity for Cuba to "export" its revolution; Cuba's"example" was sufficient. This line is given only perfunctory attention in the recent Guevara and Hart speeches. The line emerging in these speeches appears even stronger than that espoused in the "Second Declaration of Havane" promulgated last February which suggested that in certain circumstances Commmunist-dominated coalitions could come to power by peaceful means. The whole tenor of the recent speeches suggests that Cuba intends to provide every assistance within its means to Latin American insurgents. The attention given in the Cuban press to developments in Venezuela in recent weeks strongly suggests a more than academic interest in developments there.

Canadian Ambassador Kidd, speculating on the "Trotsky-like dedication to permanent revolution" apparent in a 21 November speech by Armando Hart, commented that Cuban leaders may be attempting to counter "the humiliation of the withdrawal of the Russian missiles" by making renewed efforts to "light revolutionary fires in neighboring countries." (Comment on: Canadian Embassy, Havana, 23 November, CONFIDENTIAL) (SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SUPPLEMENT

## THE CASTRO THREAT TO LATIN AMERICA

Despite diminished prestige, especially among government leaders, Castro retains great influence over politically unsophisticated Latin Americans. He is also supported by Western Hemisphere Communist parties and the vast majority of extreme leftists. Castro's main appeal lies in his claim to be the leader of a successful revolution against "Yankee imperialism" and in the support he is ready to provide subversive activities throughout Latin America.

The degree to which Cuba is involved in current hemisphere unrest is not clear. Antigovernment nationals and Communists of various Latin American countries, however, have made frequent visits to Cuba to receive pro-Castro indoctrination and propaganda. During 1962, 1,000 to 1,500 are believed to have received intensive education and training in sabotage and guerrilla warfare. Significant representation has been noted from Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, and Nicaragua. There is no definite proof that Cuba is now exporting arms to any dissident groups, but propaganda materials, explosives, and financial support are reliably reported to have been furnished.

Cuban leaders have also called with increasing frequency for open rebellion as the "only road" to liberation for the Americas; they have been especially vociferous since the first of the year. Leading officials, such as Castro, Blas Roca, Che Guevara, Carlos Rafael Rodriguez, and Juan Marinello are among those calling for revolutionary violence. The "Betancourt tyranny" in Venezuela has been designated a primary target, but Peru and Chile apparently also have high priority. The use of the Prensa Latina organization and the agent network already in existence makes it virtually sure that Havana will intensify its clandestine activities..

Latin American governments are generally now more alert to Castro's threat. Inadequate security forces and widespread poverty throughout the area, however, make it almost certain that Cuban-supported insurgency will have an effect out of proportion to the number of people involved.
(SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM)

8 Feb 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin Page (1)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 77


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

## Cuban Developments

Following Fidel Castro's call for revolution in Latin America in his 2 January speech, other Cuban speakers are emphasizing the same theme. Che Guevara told a group of Central American delegates in Havana recently that they must prepare for simultaneous revolutions in all Central American countries and pointed to Venezuela and Chile as major targets for revolution. Long-time Communist leader Blas Roca, on 23 January, praised Venezuelan Communists for their recent acts of sabotage and pledged continued Cuban support for the struggle of the people against the Betancourt "tyranny." Venezuela has long been a major Castro-Communist target, and Blas Roca's remarks imply Cuban support for the present upsurge of Communist activity there.

28 Jan 63 DIA Intelligence Bulletin Page 2
(REVERSE BLANK)
SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM
NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 78


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

(EXCERPT FROM UNCLASSIFIED DEPARTMENT OF STATE WHITE PAPER ON CUBA ISSUED
AUG 1960)

1. Armed Incursions.

No sooner had the Revolutionary Government of Cuba taken power than it launched a program for exporting its revolution to other countries in the Hemisphere, particularly in the Caribbean area. The memories of the invasions and attempted invasions of Penama, of Nicaragua, and of the Dominican Republic, following closely upon one another in the spring and summer of 1959 are still fresh. Support of Cuban officials for military expeditions against the Governments of these countries, although vehemently denied, has been established beyond reasonable doubt. With the invasion of the Dominican Republic came the realization among the American Republics that international tensions in the Caribbean area, to which Cuba had significantly contributed, had risen to the extent that a Meeting of Consultation of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American States was necessary.

The Investigating Committee appointed by the Council of the OAS, acting provisionally as Organ of Consultation under the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance, in the Panama case in June, 1959 concluded "that the Republic of Panama was the victim of an invasion, organized abroad, that sailed from a Cuban port and was composed almost entirely of foreigners". The Committee report stated that the Chairman of the Committee was able to confirm that 82 of 84 imprisoned invaders


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

were Cubans. Further, the Government of Panama, prior to the departure
of the invasion group from Cuba informed the Cuban Government of reports
about this impending event, invoking the 1928 Habana Convention on the
Duties and Rights of States in the Event of Civil Strife. The Cuban
Foreign Minister in turn assured Panama that the Cuban Government would
take the necessary preventive measures.

In connection with several of the invasions or attempted invasions
of Nicaragua from Costa Rica and Honduras in June, 1959, and the
individuals organizing them, documentary and other types of evidence
which came to light demonstrated Cuben officials support in the form of
arms and financial contributions.

Official Cuban complicity in the invasion of the Dominican Republic
in the same month was clear. The expedition was organized, trained, and
equipped in Cuba with the undoubted assistance of Cuban officials. An
officer on active duty with the Cuban Rebel Army was one of the expedi-
tion's leaders. The Cuban Navy escorted the three landing craft used
by the invading force on their voyage to the Dominican Republic.

Even during the Fifth Meeting of Consultation in Santiago, Chile,
a report was received of the invesion of Haiti on August 13, 1959 by a
group of armed men coming from Cuba. The Heitian Government after the
Santiago meeting expressed its fears of further invasion attempts. It
charged that the August 13 invasion from Cuba vas a violation of the
1928 Habana Convention on Duties and Rights of States in the Event of
Civil Strife. The assistance of Cuban officials, including the Cuban

(2)

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 80


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

Ambassador to Haiti and his five military attaches, in the attempt to
overthrow the Haitian Government was denounced by that Government. The
Cuban Government, though admitting that the invasion was launched in
Cuba and all but one of the participants were Cubans, conveniently dis-
avowed the acts of the Cuban citizens involved.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 82


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

SECRET

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NIE 85-63, 4 FEBRUARY 1963

33. There have been indications of disapproval of Castro-s policies on the part of those Latin American Communist parties which are committed to a more gradual and less violent approach to revolution. Castro has shown himself willing to collaborate with any group, Communist or not, willing to resort to violence and in so doing to circumvent some of the regular Communist parties. Some of the latter resent such tactics and have appealed to the Soviets against Castro. It seems likely that the question of relations with other Latin American Communist parties, as well as the question of tactics, is likely to hamper Communist revolutionary efforts in Latin America and cause strains in Soviet-Cuban relations.

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 83


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

SECRET

EXCERPT FROM DRAFT NIE 85-63, 4 FEBRUARY 1963

29. ... Among much of the revolutionary left, discussion has tended to shift to the need for indigenous, nationalist revolutions, and away from internationalism and alliance with Moscow-oriented Communists and fidelistas.

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 84


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

SECRET

Panamanian Communist Party (PDP) leeder Ruperto Thomas' recent
trip to Cuba was evidently an effort to persuade Castro to support the
PDP rather than the more activist Panamanian pro-Communist VAN group.
When he returned to Panama on 14 December, Thomes reportedly said that
Jorge Turner, who also went to Hevans in September and has not returned,
and other VAN leaders are still campaigning against the FDP in Cuba.
However, the Cubans claim to have told VAN Leaders they must cooperate
with the FDP to get Cestro support.

The Castro government seems consistently to favor the VAN with
funds and international trips. The Cubans may distrust the PDP's poor
organization and believe VAN charges that the FDP is infiltrated. However,
the VAN is a rather unstable group and the Cubans are probably trying to
keep on good terms with both. Thomas said he received no military training
but was taught a few things like how to dismantle a machine gun.

Thouns commented that no particular group seemed to be in command
in Cuba, resulting in such disorder that it was a wonder the revolution
had survived. He believes the ORI is merely a mechanism.

Mexico would not issue Thomas a visa, so he returned to Panama via
Prague where he talked with Czech Communist officials and may have
pleaded the PDP case against VAN with them. (CIA Panama City TDCS-3/
531,754, 20 Dec, SECRET)

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 85

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Titia 18. U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission por revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY VENEZUELA EAST GERMANY REPORT NO. TDCS-3/537;107

SUBJECT VENEZUELAN ATTENDANCE AT THE DATE DISTR. 12 FEBRUARY 1963
EAST GERMAN COMMUNIST PARTY CONGRESS

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF INFO. JANUARY 1963 REFERENCES IN 65920

PLACE & DATE ACO. VENEZUELA, CARACAS (1 & 7 FEBRUARY 1963) FIELD REPORT NO. HVC 2652

APPRAISAL 2

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE PARA 1: A MEMBER: (B) OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA, FROM A FELLOW CELL
MEMBER WHO WORKS IN THE NATIONAL PARTY OFFICES.

PARA 2: A MEMBER (B) OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA, FROM POMPEYO MARQUEZ.

1. JESUS FARIA, MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL SECRETARIAT OF THE PARTIDO

COMUNISTA DE VENEZUELA (PCV, COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA),

AND OLGA LUZARDO FINOL, SECRETARY OF WOMEN'S AFFAIRS OF THE PCV,

WERE TWO OF THE DELEGATES OF THE PCV TO THE EAST GERMAN COMMUNIST

PARTY CONGRESS HELD DURING JAN '63. THEY RETURNED TO VENEZUELA WITH A

LENGTHY DOCUMENT WHICH CLEARLY DISCUSSES THE IDEOLOGICAL

DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE COMMUNIST PARTIES OF CHINA AND THE USSR.

THIS DOCUMENT IS BEING CIRCULATED AMONG SOME MEMBERS OF THE PCV.

2. POMPEYO MARQUEZ, MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL SECRETARIAT OF THE PCV,

ON 1 FEB SAID THAT THE VENEZUELAN AND CUBAN DELEGATIONS AT THE EAST

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

STATECING DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OC! ONE OCR ORR 091 00
STATE DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

DA IN 16376

FORM 1K ORSOLSTS PREVIOUS EDITIONO,
5-82

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 86

000

(15-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

# SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS-3/537,107

IN 65920

PAGE 2

GERMAN COMMUNIST PARTY CONGRESS TOOK A NEUTRAL POSITION REGARDING THE
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN CHINA AND THE USSR WHEREAS THE OTHER LATIN AMERICAN
COMMUNIST PARTY REPRESENTATIVES STRONGLY SUPPORTED THE POSITION OF
THE USSR. REPRESENTATIVES OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNIST PARTIES AT THE
CONGRESS CAUTIONED THAT EXTREME CARE SHOULD BE TAKEN BY THE PCV IN USING
GUERRILLA FORCES.

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCLANT CINCARIB.

ACTION: ACSI, NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD
INFO : DCSOP, DIAT
DA IN 16376

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

# SECRET

NO-FOREIGN DISSEM

# SECRET

000

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 87


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

# SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Cuban Anniversary Celebrations (See pictures following)

The Cuban Armed Forces parade in Havana yesterday included infantry, naval, artillery, armor, and air formations. The most significant display was that of SA-2 missiles and possible cruise missiles.

Ground units included 15 companies of the 2d Western Army, units of the National Militia, and other infantry units in a "new parade step" resembling the goose step. The artillery unit had antitank guns, heavy artillery, multiple rocket launchers and AA artillery. Three battalions of medium tanks, heavy tanks and assault guns, along with the surface-to-air and possible cruise missiles made up the final unit of the parade.

The air formations included helicopters, propeller-type training planes, and MIG-15's, 19's and 21's.

Soviet participation in the parade has not been established, although Soviets and Czechs may have piloted some of the aircraft.

Premier Castro's speech following the parade brought no surprises aside from its unusual brevity. He made an effort to indicate Cuban control of the air defense system, including the SA-2's, and, in a probable reference to US reconnaissance flights, said there could be an incident "at any time".

Castro reiterated the five demands he first made after the announcement that the Soviets would withdraw offensive missiles from Cuba. He included his usual anti-US statements and slurs at President Kennedy and made a low-keved appeal for "unity" within the Communist Bloc. He called for revolution in Latin America, with special emphasis on Venezuela, and cited Cuba's "historic task of serving as an example" for that revolution.,

In the USSR, Cuban and Soviet spokesmen lauded Cuban-Russian friendship and unity, and the Soviet spokesman, Suslov, pledged that his country would "never leave Revolutionary Cuba alone in distress."
(CONFIDENTIAL)
SOURCE: VARIOUS

3 Jan 63 DIA Intelligence Bulletin Page 1

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

# SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

reportedly continues, the threat of retaliatory action from forces rallying around deposed Air Force Chief Lemus has apparently diminished, and the majority of the armed forces still supports President Ydigoras. The President's intention with regard to leftist ex-President Arevalo, who plans to return and seek the presidency in next December's elections, is an unsettling factor. The armed forces universally oppose Arevalo. Some factions want to replace Ydigoras with a civilian-military junta and call new elections before Arevalo becomes eligible to run in March. Should Arevalo return, the military will probably move to prevent his candidacy and the coming months may be critical.

Honduran President Villeda Morales, although not a strong leader, is expected to complete his term. The ruling Liberal Party will probably retain the Presidency in the October elections, and maneuvering for the nomination has begun. Rodas Alvarado, President of the Congress and one of the three leading contenders, has used his position to build up strength, but the armed forces regard him as the least desirable and a developing anti-Rodas coalition may prevent his nomination. Either of the three leading candidates would probably follow the present government's policies, including its relatively soft Communist stand. The Communists, while not yet a direct threat, are steadily increasing their influence in the labor field and are exploiting the country's discouraging political, economic, and social conditions.

El Salvador, faced with a serious Communist threat about two years ago, continues to show political and economic progress, but there are clouds on the horizon. President Rivera, who assumed control last summer in a full return to constitutional government, still has widespread support and military backing. The government is moving ahead with its reform program, but there is some resistance to the proposed new income taxes. Communist activities have been curbed, but the Communists still retain a subversive capability particularly among labor and student groups. There is concern over the likely election of a pro-Communist as rector of the university, a center of sub- version and intrigue.

Costa Rica continues to be one of the most democratic and politically stable countries in Latin America but there are reverberations of unrest stemming from the deteriorating economic situation. The ruling National Liberation Party, which was returned to power in last year's election in a bitterly contested but peaceful election, represents the liberal left, although it includes a number of moderates such as President Orlich and some members of his cabinet. The Communist Party is small and illegal but well organized and effectively led. It recently instigated disorders in the banana zone and, while not an immediate threat, has long-range potential should economic conditions worsen.

28 Jan 63 DIA Intelligence Bulletin Page (2)

(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

# SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Panama is relatively quiet. Although Panama has failed to receive any commitment for a long-sought renegotiation of the Canal Zone treaty, continuing talks on areas of disagreement and some concessions have eased tensions and softened violent anti-US propaganda. Public emotion may again be aroused, however, by the recent petition, filed by a Communist lawyer, requesting the Supreme Court to declare the treaty unconstitutional. President Chiari has also indicated he expects to press for increased compensation during the forthcoming talks. On the internal scene, President Chiari has failed to provide a strong administration. Corruption continues; the cabinet is divided by conflicting loyalties and ambitions; badly needed reforms have not yet been adopted; and the chronically depressed economy remains stagnant.

The stability which has marked the 30-year dominance of Mexico's Party of Revolutionary Institutions (PRI) is gradually being eroded. Extreme right and left factions of the PRI are vying for domination. In attempting to placate both, President Lopez Mateos has adopted inconsistent and vacillating policies, pleasing neither group. Forces outside the PRI also pose an increasing threat -- particularly the recently formed Independent Peasant Central (CCI) with which leftist ex-President Cardenas is associated. The CCI, organized to exploit unrest among the land- less peasants, may also attempt to challenge the PRI politically. To undercut the CCI, the government plans to complete the land distribution program by the end of Lopez Mateos' term late next year. Although this may alleviate discontent in the agrarian sector, rising population and mounting unemployment will continue to be major problems.

(SECRET)

28 Jan 63 DIA Intelligence Bulletin Page (3)

(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 90


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

Construction of the fishing port in the Bay of Havana, whose announcement as a Soviet undertaking caused so much concern last fall, will be directed by a team of Soviet technicians and Cuban engineers and will start in February - according to a Havana radio announcement. The port is to be completed by the end of 1963 and is to cost 12 million pesos, which will be met by a loan from the Soviet Union, to be amortized over 10 years. The port is expected to serve 130 vessels of the Soviet fishing fleet and from 24 to 30 of the Cuban fleet. It will have installations such as freener plants for 10,000 tons of fish, factories for processing sea products, machinery for making no less than 80 tons of ice a day, a floating dock to repair ships of up to 2,500 tons, and well-equipped repair shops. The announcement emphasized that the port is to be operated by and will be the "absolute property of the Cuban state." It has also been announced that Poland has now formulated plans for building the shipyard envisaged in the port of Mariel. The installation will be managed by Cuban technicians who are presently receiving training in Polish shipyards on the Baltic. Ship construction will reportedly reach a level of 70,000 tons per year. (FBIS 58, 17 January, and Daily Report, 16 January, OFFICIAL USE ONLY)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

# Department of State

CONFIDENTIAL

48

FROM: Kingston

TO: Secretary of State

NO: 567, February 11, 6 p.m.

CONFIDENT IAL

Control: 7384
Rec'd: February 11, 1963 9:11 p.m.

GEN. CARROLL
GEN. QUINN
GEN. HALL
COL. GILLIS

PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
Ref by msg member in unclassified reply prohibited.

*Epporting Revolution*

Permanent Secretary External Affairs Ministry told Embassy today that GOJ concerned over reports it had received that USSR furnishing Cubans not only fishing vessels, but also torpedo boats and submarine chasers. He foresaw Soviet-supplied ships as having potential adverse effect on Jamaican fishing industry as well as presenting possible security problem. He asked whether US could provide more detailed information on these ships which would operate from Soviet-built "fishing base" in Cuba.

In view of reports, he planned to urge Cabinet to take early action on deciding and publicizing limits of Jamaican territorial waters in order to avoid incidents with Soviets and Cubans. He is considering recommending to Cabinet that Jamaica claim territorial waters of six-and-six miles. Jamaica now apparently claims three-mile limit.

Although GOJ obviously counting on receipt US military equipment, seems unlikely that this expression GOJ concern motivated primarily by desire to speed up delivery. Embassy inclined to view Jamaican approach as healthsome indication GOJ at technical level beginning to appreciate ramifications of Cuban problem.

ACTION: STATE (ARMY ACSI)
INFO : DCSOP, OSA, JCS, USDEL IADB
DA IN 16465
SMD: CT

DOHERTY

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"

000

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 92


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

HW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 93


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

# SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

## SUPPLEMENT

### THE SITUATION IN CENTRAL AMERICA, PANAMA, AND MEXICO

Central America is relatively stable. Preparations are under way for President Kennedy's scheduled meeting with the Chiefs of State of these countries at San Jose, Costa Rica, on 18 and 19 March. Tensions are rising, however, in those countries having elections scheduled this year; Mexico's political stability is threatened; and the Cuban subversive potential remains a problem throughout the area.

During the forthcoming meeting, an attempt will be made to center discussions on areas of common interest. Economic integration of the Central American region -- one of the major objectives of the Alliance for Progress Program -- will undoubtedly be emphasized. Central America, which has been moving toward greater political unity, has begun to take steps toward economic integration, and presently envisages the creation of a Common Market by 1965. The Cuban subversive threat is also likely to be given top priority. All of the Central American countries regard this as one of the major problems and are seeking ways to meet it.

On 3 February, Nicaraguans are scheduled to cast ballots for the first time in nearly 30 years for a Presidential candidate who is not a member of the Somoza family. Rene Schick -- the government's Liberal Party (PLN) candidate and hand-picked by the Somozas -- is expected to win easily, however. Effective opposition to Schick collapsed when the major opposition party Traditionalist Conservative (PCT) -- boycotted the elections because the government refused to permit OAS supervision. The only opponent is Diego Manuel Chamorro Bolanos, a last-minute candidate of the splinter Nicaraguan Conservative Party (PCN), whose entry into the race seems to have been engineered by the government to provide a semblance of opposition. Castro-Communist elements, militant conservatives and others may attempt to create disorders before or during the elections, but the Nicaraguan National Guard is believed capable of controlling any troubles short of a general uprising or wel l-coordinated rebel invasion -- neither of which seems likely.

Anti-Somoza Nicaraguans have alleged fraudulent registrations and may attempt to challenge the elections. Although Schick may not turn out to be a Somoza puppet, opposition suspicions will be reinforced with the likely retention of General Anastasio Somoza as Director of the National Guard.

Repercussions in Guatemala from the recent abortive Air Force revolt have not been too serious. Although plotting

28 Jan 63 DIA Intelligence Bulletin Page (1)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

allying around deposed Air Force Chief Lemus. Lemus has apparently diminished, and the majority of the armed forces still support President Ydigoras. The President's intention with regard to leftist ex-President Arevalo, who plans to return and seek the presidency in next December's elections, is an unsettling factor. The armed forces universally oppose Arevalo. Some factions want to replace Ydigoras with a civilian-military junta and call new elections before Arevalo becomes eligible to run in March. Should Arevalo return, the military will probably move to prevent his candidacy and the coming months may be critical.

Honduran President Villeda Morales, although not a strong leader, is expected to complete his term. The ruling Liberal Party will probably retain the Presidency in the October elections, and maneuvering for the nomination has begun. Rodas Alvarado, President of the Congress and one of the three leading contenders, has used his position to build up strength, but the armed forces regard him as the least desirable and a developing anti-Rodas coalition may prevent his nomination. Either of the three leading candidates would probably follow the present government policies including its relatively soft Communist stand. The Communists, while not yet a direct threat, are steadily increasing their influence in the labor field and are exploiting the com discouraging political, economic, and social conditions.

El Salvador, faced with a serious Communist threat two years ago, continues to show political and economic weakness. There are clouds on the horizon. President Rivera, who assumed control last summer in a full return to constitutional government, still has widespread support and military backing. The government is moving ahead with its reform program, but there is some resistance to the proposed new income taxes. Communist activities have been curbed, but the Communists still retain a subversive capability particularly among labor and student groups. There is concern over the likely election of a pro-Communist as rector of the university, a center of subversion and intrigue.

Costa Rica continues to be one of the most democratic and politically stable countries in Latin America but there are reverberations of unrest stemming from the deteriorating economic situation. The ruling National Liberation Party, which was returned to power in last year's election in a bitterly contested interim election, represents the liberal left, although it includes a number of moderates such as President Orlich and some members of his cabinet. The Communist Party is small and illegal, but remains effectively led. It recently instigated disorders in the banana zone and, while not an immediate threat, has longer-range potential as economic conditions worsen.

25 Jan 63

CIA Intelligence Bulletin Page (2)

(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

# SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Panama is relatively quiet, Although Panama has failed to receive any commitment for a long-sought renegotiation of the Canal Zone treaty, continuing talks on areas of disagreement and some concessiono have eased tensions and softened violent anti-US propaganda. Public opinion, however, can be aroused, in recent petition, filed by Communist lawyer, requesting the Supreme Court to declare the treaty unconstitutional. President Chiari has also indicated no expectation of increased compensation during the forthcoming normal scene; President Chiari has failed to provide a strong administration. Corruption continues; the government is divided by conflicting loyalties and the chronically depressed economy is fueling discontent.

The stability which had marked the 30-year dominance of Mexico's Party of Revolutionary Institutions (PRI) is gradually being eroded. Extreme factions of the PRI are vying for domination. In attempting to placate both, President Lopez Mateos has adopted inconsistent and vacillating policies pleasing neither group. Recent opposition inside the PRI also pose an increasing threat. Particularly the recently formed Independent Peasant Central (CCI), organized under ex-President Cardonas is associated. The CCI, organized to exploit discontent among the landless peasants, may also attempt to challenge the PRI politically. To undercut the CCI, the government plans to complete the land distribution program by the end of Lopez Mateos term late next year. Although this may alleviate discontent in the agrarian sector, rising population and mounting unemployment will continue to be major problems.

(SECRET)

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

## Campesino Strike Scheduled in Bolivia

A planned Campesino (peasant) strike in Bolivia today could lead to violence if it occurs. The Government reportedly plans to block all entrances into La Paz, and campesinos loyal to the government are assembling and arming to counter the strikers who are led by pro-Communist Torribio Salas. A government spokesman claims that the Cuban and Czechoslovak Embassies are financing the strike and that the Cubans are training campesino militia in other areas as well.

President Paz has reportedly said he will do everything to prevent the strike but will call on loyal campesinos for aid if he fails. If armed conflict develops between the two groups of campesinos, the Armed Forces would probably be forced to step in. President Paz might also have to take action against trouble makers like Salas, something he has tried to avoid.

(CONFIDENTIAL)

SOURCE: ARMA LA PAZ CX-11 (c)

28 Jan 63

DIA Intelligence Bulletin
(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

SECRIEAL
DISSEM

Three top Brazilien Communist Party officials, including Luis Carlos Prestes, are reported leaving for Cuba via Prague prior to 15 January to discuss certain political problems with the Cuban Communists responsible for pro-Cuban activities in the different Latin American countries. Before leaving they planned to be briefed by a Brazilian Communist Party member who has just returned from a visit to party leaders in Uruguay, Argentina, Chile, Peru, and Bolivia to get their opinions about holding the "Latin American Congress in Support of Cuba," now rescheduled for March, in Rio or Sao Paulo. (CIA, Rio de Janeiro, IN 42868, 31 December, SECRET NOFORN)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

The National Executive Commission of Brazil's orthodox Commmmist
Party (PCB) reportedly planned to meet on 7 January to discuss the
party position in relation to Francisco Juliso, Brazilian Peasant-League
leader who has been closer to Brazil's dissident hard-line Communist
Party than to its orthodox group (CPB). The PCB leaders planned to
consider the possibility of sending a high-level party delegation to
Cuba to confer with Fidel Castro, not only to improve relations but
to protest a report that Castrol is supporting Juliso. (CIA Sao Paulo,
TDCS-3533404, 9 January, SECRET)

Comment: Cuba has for some time had a divisive influence on
Brazilian Communist affairs. The dissident Communist Party formed in
late 1961. hae- like Juliao - favored a more revolutionary line and has
apparently received considerably more support from Cuba than has the
orthodox party. Another indication of the divisive influence of Cubo
is the report that Frencisco Leives Otero, FCB leader responsible for
matters pertaining to Cuba, attached party subservience to the CPSU at
a national PCB conference on 29 November. Leivas maintained that the
PCB should discuss the Sino-Soviet dispute with complete independence,
rather than maintain silence on it es it had been doing. (SECRET)

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 99


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Socs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY MEXICO/BRAZIL

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/537,187

SUBJECT CLOSE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN VICENTE LOMBARDO DATE DISTR. 12 FEBRUARY 1963

TOLEDANO AND PRESIDENT MATEOS; REASONS FOR
LOMBARDO'S TRIP TO BRAZIL

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF
INFO. 12 FEBRUARY 1963

REFERENCES IN 67594

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (12 FEBRUARY 1963)

APPRAISAL 2 FIELD REPORT NO. HMM 7016

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A PERSON (B) IN CLOSE PERSONAL CONTACT WITH LOMBARDO.

1. ON 12 FEBRUARY VICENTE LOMBARDO TOLEDANO, SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE PARTIDO POPULAR SOCIALISTA (PPS - POPULAR SOCIALIST PARTY) CONFERRED WITH HUMBERTO ROMERO PEREZ, PRIVATE SECRETARY OF ADOLFO LOPEZ MATEOS, PRESIDENT OF MEXICO. LOMBARDO TOLD ROMERO HE WANTED THE PRESIDENT TO KNOW ABOUT HIS TRIP TO BRAZIL AND WHY HE WAS GOING. HE ASKED ROMERO TO TELL LOPEZ MATEOS THAT HE WOULD LEAVE MEXICO CITY FOR RIO DE JANEIRO ON 13 FEBRUARY, AND EXPECTED TO BE BACK IN MEXICO CITY ON 23 FEBRUARY. LOMBARDO TOLD ROMERO HE WOULD CONTACT HIM ON HIS RETURN FROM BRAZIL IN ORDER TO ARRANGE A PRIVATE MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT. LOMBARDO SAID HE HAD SEVERAL THINGS

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 081 00

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

SECRET

FORM 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 100

0000

(15-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

SECRET

SECRET
(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN 67594
TDCS-3/537,187
PAGE 2

TO DISCUSS WITH LOPEZ MATEOS.

2. LOMBARDO GAVE ROMERO THE FOLLOWING REASONS FOR HIS TRIP TO BRAZIL. HE SAID THAT A GROUP OF BRAZILIAN PERSONALITIES AND INTELLECTUALS HAD CONVOKED A CONGRESS WHICH IS SCHEDULED TO BE HELD IN RIO DE JANEIRO IN MARCH 1963. HE SAID THE TWO PRINCIPAL AIMS OF THE CONGRESS ARE:

A. TO CREATE AN ORGANIZATION IN DEFENSE OF CUBA.

B. TO EXAMINE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS EXISTING IN LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES IN ORDER TO PROMOTE THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF LATIN AMERICA.

3. LOMBARDO SAID THAT SOMETHING WENT WRONG IN BRAZIL BECAUSE, APART FROM THE COMMITTEE WHICH CONVOKED THE CONGRESS, A SECOND SEPARATE COMMITTEE HAD SPRUNG UP WHOSE AIMS ARE THE SAME, AND THAT A SORT OF RIVALRY HAS DEVELOPED BETWEEN THE TWO GROUPS. LOMBARDO SAID THE RESULT WAS "THAT MY COMRADES IN EUROPE HAVE ASKED ME TO GO TO BRAZIL TO INTERVENE IN THE MATTER, TO TRY TO ORGANIZE A SINGLE UNITED COMMITTEE, AND MAKE DEFINITE PREPARATIONS FOR THE HOLDING OF THE CONGRESS IN ORDER TO ENSURE ITS SUCCESS." LOMBARDO SAID "THE COMRADES IN EUROPE" SHOULD HAVE SENT AN ARGENTINE, A CHILEAN, A URUGUAYAN, OR SOMEONE NEARER BRAZIL, BUT THEY INSISTED ON SENDING HIM BECAUSE HE HAS EXPERIENCE, AND THEY ARE CONVINCED THAT HE CAN STRAIGHTEN THINGS OUT SATISFACTORILY.

4. LOMBARDO TOLD ROMERO THAT IF THE CONGRESS IS HELD IN MARCH, AS

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET DA IN 17084
NO FOFEION DISSEM

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 101

0000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN 67594
TDCS-3/537,187
PAGE 3

SCHEDULED, HE WILL NOT ATTEND IT. HE SAID "THE PRIMA DONNAS"

AND ORNAMENTAL FIGURES WILL TAKE OVER THEN, AND I AM NOT ONE OF
THOSE." ROMERO REMARKED THAT LOMBARDO IS A MAN OF WORK. LOMBARDO
SAID, "I GO TO ORGANIZE SO THE CONGRESS WILL NOT FAIL, THAT IS MY
MISSION, NOTHING MORE, AFTER THAT ANY ONE FROM MEXICO CAN ATTEND."

5. (FIELD COMMENT. LOMBARDO'S PLAN TO LEAVE MEXICO ON 13 FEBRUARY
   FOR PANAMA AND RIO DE JANEIRO HAS ALREADY BEEN REPORTED.)

6. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI I&NS CINCARIB.

ACTION: ACSI, NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD

INFO : DCSOP

DA IN 17084

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

0000

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 102


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

# DEPARTMENT OF STATE

# AIRGRAM

CSM 9-6 BRÁZ

FOR RM USE ONLY

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

ACTION

ARA-4

RM/R REP

A

EUR FE

A-234

NEA CU INR

5

TO : DEPARTMENT OF STATE

INFO : RIO DE JANEIRO

FOO AID

5/12 U/18

AGR COM FRB FROM : Amcongen, SAO PAULO DATE: February 6, 1963

INT LAB TAR SUBJECT: Sample survey of worker sentiment shows receptivity
toward communism; São Paulo business leaders re-

6
TR XMB AIR REF : ported by one observer as generally unconcerned over
Communist danger.

4
ARMY CIA NAVY

5 10 5
OSD USIA NSA

12 8 3

Two straws in the wind that have come recently to my atten- tion indicate the existence of an unhealthy attitude toward communism on the part of at least some segments of São Paulo's working and managerial classes. Further indications in support of or in refutation of these signs will be submitted as they are noted.

On January 31, I was visited by the two top American ex- ecutives of a Brazilian subsidiary of a large American corporation. [^1] They said that their firm, following a practice instituted some years ago of periodically sampling worker sentiment in their plants, had just finished a small survey conducted very informally by trusted Brazilian employees among 55 or 60 of their semi-skilled workers to discover how the latter would feel about the establishment in Brazil of a communist system of government. The result of this survey was so shockingly different from that of earlier pulse-taking that these executives thought the Consulate General should know about it. Eighty percent of the workers approached had indicated that while they did not pretend to know much about communism, they thought they would be better off under a communist regime than they are at present. Among the reasons most commonly given were that things were so bad in Brazil that any change would be for the better and that communism would put an end to the rascality (*malandragem*) which is so prevalent. The other twenty percent thought that communism would be bad for the country.

[^1]: Names withheld at their request.

OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FOR DEPT. USE ONLY

DMBraddock:tmn 2-6-63

FORM DS-323

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 103


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

Sao taulo
A-234

OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-2-

The company executives attributed the pro-communist sentiment as revealed, mainly to the economic difficulties experienced by low-income families as a result of the rampant inflation. They said their labor relations were good, that while their pay scales were not as high as those in some other industries, some popular fringe benefits were provided, and that to the best of their knowledge there had been no communist agitators at work among their employees.

Not long before this visit I was lunching one day at the Jockey Club with Sr. Paulo Ayres Filho, a Brazilian banker and pharmaceutical manufacturer who is the spark-plug of IPES (Instituto de Pesquisas Economicas e Sociais), the principal democratic action group in the local business world. Looking around him at the other tables, occupied by a good many well-known figures of São Paulo's conservative upper classes, Sr. Ayres said to me, "Apart from the two of us, there isn't a man in this dining room who is seriously concerned over the communist danger in Brazil."

No conclusions, obviously, should be drawn from such slender indications. It has been my observation, however, that most Brazilians either believe that a communist take-over would be impossible in Brazil, or believe that even if it occurred, it would take a relatively mild form with which they could live. The Brazilian's boasted calm, which is genuine and in most circumstances a virtue, could in the present state of affairs be the cause of his undoing.

Daniel M. Braddock
Minister Consul General

OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 104


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.O. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Colombia/Cuba

REPORT NO. CS-3/536,069

SUBJECT Cuban Support of Guerrillas in Colombia

DATE DISTR. 4 February 1963

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES RD

DATE OF INFO. October 1962

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Germany, Munich (14 December 1962)

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: An official German service, from "a fairly reliable source with contacts in Buenos Aires." Appraisal of Content: 6.

1. Maximo Gruber, a major in the Cuban Army and one of the leaders of the G-2 section, has been appointed technical leader of the Communist guerrillas in Sumapaz, Colombia. [^1] Gruber, a Polish Jew, was formerly a commissar in Spain. His wife is European. His son Maximo is a graduate of the Lenin Institute in Moscow. On his frequent trips to Bolivia, Uruguay, and Cuba he carries a Bolivian diplomatic passport identifying him as "traveling inspector of the Bolivian Foreign Ministry."

2. Gruber is being assisted in his tasks in Colombia by Jaime Guerra, also known as Captain Veneno. One of his liaison officers to the Communist Party of Colombia is Blanca Diaz y Collazo, a lawyer and former member of the Cuban Embassy in Bogota, who was trained in Prague in 1952.

1. Headquarters Comment. An official British service reported in April 1961 that Maximo Grobart, nationality unknown, was training guerrillas in the Sumapaz area; Grobart, who claimed to be of Hungarian origin, had a Cuban passport in the name of Jose Blanco and might have had other passports of different nationalities.

[^1]:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

# INFORMATION REPORT

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T

COUNTRY Costa Rica/Cuba

REPORT NO. CS-3/534,724

SUBJECT Departure of Costa Rican Communist to Live in Cuba

DATE DISTR. 22 January 1963

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES RD

DATE OF INFO. November 1962

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Costa Rica, San José (23 November 62)

FIELD REPORT NO. HRS-3006

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: Costa Rican (B) with good contacts in Costa Rican Communist Party circles. Appraisal of Content: 2.

Carlos Guillen Fernandez, Costa Rican Communist who was formerly very active in the Sociedad de Amigos de la Revolucion Cubana (Society of Friends of the Cuban Revolution), left Costa Rica on 14 November, on his way to Cuba, where he planned to remain indefinitely and to work.

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 106


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.O. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Ecuador/Cuba/Latin America REPORT NO. CS-3/535,791

SUBJECT Request by Cuban Diplomat in DATE DISTR. 1 February 1963
Chile to Member of the
Revolutionary Union of Ecuadorean NO. PAGES 1
Youth for Information on Leftist
Activity in Ecuador REFERENCES RD-W-2107

DATE OF
INFO. Mid-January 1963

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Ecuador, Guayaquil (22 January 1963) FIELD REPORT NO. HEG-2108

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: Member (C) of the Revolutionary Union of Ecuadorean Youth.
Appraisal of Content: 3.

Alfredo Vera Arrata, a member of the National Executive Council of the Revolutionary Union of Ecuadorean Youth (URJE) until his expulsion from URJE during its National Convention held in early January 1963, has received a letter from Pedro Martinez Pirez, First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Santiago, Chile, in which he asks Vera to send a person to Chile to inform him on current leftist activity in Ecuador. Vera plans to send Jaime Galarza Zavala, also expelled from URJE, if funds can be raised for the trip

Field Comment. Martinez is in charge of Cuban subversive activities in Chile, Peru, and Ecuador.

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 107


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

# SECRET
TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONTROLLED DISSEM

(When Filled in)

COUNTRY CUBA/HAITI

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/653,274

SUBJECT PLANNED MILITARY COUP TO OVERTHROW
PRESIDENT DUVALIER OF HAITI

DATE DISTR. 14 FEBRUARY 1963

DATE OF INFO. 8 FEBRUARY 1963

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

PLACE & DATE ACO. UNITED STATES (28 JANUARY, 8 FEBRUARY 1963)

REFERENCES IN 67457

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE AN OFFICER (B) OF NEWS DISTRIBUTING MEDIA; FROM A COLLEAGUE OF EUSEBIO MUJAL BARNIOL.

ASD
DASD
EXEC
D/RA
EUR
NESA
WHEM
FE
SSR
FMRA
FEA
D/AC
DIS
D/PL
P/PL
ODMA
MAPL
PROG
MGT
WPS
C/L

1. PAUL E. MAGLOIRE, FORMER HAITIAN PRESIDENT, IS PLANNING
   TO OVERTHROW PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER OF HAITI IN A MILITARY
   COUP. MAGLOIRE CLAIMS TO HAVE THE BACKING OF THE HAITIAN ARMY.
   THE DATE OF THE COUP IS EXPECTED TO BE SET AT A SECRET MEETING
   WILL BE HELD IN NEW YORK ON 20 FEBRUARY.

2. MAGLOIRE EXPECTS TO RECEIVE FINANCIAL SUPPORT AND MANPOWER
   FROM CERTAIN CUBANS IN EXILE. ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ Y ECHAZABAL,
   FORMER CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO HAITI, IS LINING UP CUBAN EXILE SUPPORT.
   RODRIGUEZ HOPES THAT IF THE CUBANS PLAY A PROMINENT ROLE, THEY

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONTROLLED DISSEM

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR
STATE/DIR
JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR O8I 00 EXO

TREASURY FBI I&NS REPCINCLANT

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

DA IN 17056

SECRET

FORM 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

5-62

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 108

000

(15-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
(When Filled In)

CONTROLLED DISSEM

TDCSDB-3/653,274

IN 67457
PAGE 2

MIGHT BE GIVEN A BASE FROM WHICH TO OPERATE ACTIVELY AGAINST CÀSTRO IN THE FUTURE. (SOURCE COMMENT: RODRIGUEZ HAD BEEN A DELEGATE OF THE 26 JULY MOVEMENT IN PUERTO PRINCIPE UNTIL JANUARY 1959 WHEN HE WAS NAMED AMBASSADOR TO HAITI BY FIDEL CASTRO RUZ.

IN LATE 1959 RODRIGUEZ MANAGED TO ESCAPE ASSASSINATION).

3. EUSEBIO MUJAL BARNIOL OF THE CONFEDERACION DE TRABAJADORES DE CUBA EN EXILIO (CTCE-CONFEDERATION OF CUBAN WORKERS IN EXILE) IS ASSISTING RODRIGUEZ, A RELATIVE.

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, CINCLANT, CINCARIB.

ACTION: ACSI, NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD
INFO : DCSOP
DA IN 17056

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

SECREGONTROLLED DISSEN

000

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 109


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

CONTROL (ANTI-RIOT) PUBLIC SECURITY
SECRET
MEMORANDUM
SUBJECT: SITUATION IN THE FIELD
PLACE
REFERENCE: FIELD REPORT NO 1628
ATTACHMENTS: NONE
DEMONSTRATIONS, WORK STOPPAGES AND RELATIVE APPREHENSIONS. INTELLECTUALS' CONSIDERATION OF STUDENT DEMONSTRATIONS
THIS INVOLVES ALL MEMBERS OF THE VANGUARD OF THE CITY'S CULTURAL INSTITUTE, INCLUDING THE INSTITUTE COMPANIES AND ATTENDANCE OF MINORS BELONGING TO THE SEMINARS OF THE MONCADA ARMY AS WELL AS YOUTH AND GIRLS OF THE MARTIANAS
SECRET
INFORMATION REPORT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

CLASSIFICATION DESIGNATION CONTROL

IMMEDIATE

FROM MEXICO TO RECEIVE HIM. WELCOME IS ASSURANCE OF DEFINITIVE SUPPORT TO THE REGIME OF FIDEL CASTRO RUZ, COMMUNIST PRIME MINISTER OF CUBA.

RAOUL PADILLA GUTIERREZ, A LEADING MEMBER OF THE JDLV, IS ALSO TRYING TO ORGANIZE AND INCITE THE MEXICAN WORKERS AND FARMERS TO DEMONSTRATE AGAINST BETANCOURT’S VISIT.

FIELD DISSEM: STATE FBI CINCLANT

INFO ONLY: ACSI, NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD
NRIC - E3D3F
DIA IU 17415

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

# SECRET

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sect 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY PANAMA/CUBA IN : 9477 (13 Feb 63) R/bEJORT NO. TOQS 3/537,022

SUBJECT CUBAN PROPOSAL TO THE PARTIDO DEL PUEBLO DATE DISTR. 12 FEBRUARY 1963
TO ASSIST IN ESTABLISHMENT OF CUBAN
ESPIONAGE NET IN PANAMA

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

DATE OF INFO. 17 DECEMBER 1962

REFERENCES IN 38943

PLACE & DATE ACQ. PANAMA, PANAMA CITY (21 DEC 62)

APPRAISAL 2 - THAT THOMAS IS ACCURATELY QUOTED

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE FINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE REGIONAL OFFICER (B) OF THE PARTIDO DEL PUEBLO, FROM THOMAS WHO IS A PERSONAL FRIEND.

1. ON 17 DECEMBER 1962, RUPERTO LUTHER THOMAS, NATIONAL SECRETARY OF PROPAGANDA OF THE PARTIDO DEL PUEBLO (PDP - PEOPLE'S PARTY - CONTRES), SAID THAT WATER HE WAS IN CUBA HE HAD COMMITTED THE PDP TO ACCEPT À PROPOSAL MADE BY THE CUBANS, WHO PROPOSE TO ESTABLISH AN ESPIONAGE NET IN PANAMA,

TARGETED AGAINST UNITED STATES MILITARY INSTALLATIONS IN THE CANAL ZONE, TO BE FUNDED THROUGH THE PDP. THOMAS SAID THE CUBANS ARE EXTREMELY INTERESTED IN THE MOVEMENTS OF MILITARY SHIPS, THROUGH THE PANAMA CANAL, AND THAT THEY TOLD HIM THAT THE NET WOULD REQUIRE TWO MEN, ONE A RADIO TECHNICIAN, THE CTHER A CODE EXPERT. THOMAS WISHED TO KNOW WHETHER A RADIO TRANSMITTER COULD BE BOUGHT IN PANAMA.

2. THOMAS SAID THAT HE HAD REPORTED THE CUBAN PROPOSAL TO THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

![image of classification markings]

![routing and control markings]

![PROGRAM INFORMATION REPORT]

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 112


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TDCS 3/537,022
PAGE: 2

COMMITTEE (CEN) OF THE PDP ON 16 DECEMBER BUT THAT HE HAD NOT TOLD THE CEN THAT HE HAD COMMITTED THE PDP TO ACCEPT THE PROPOSAL. THOMAS WAS WORRIED ABOUT THE MATTER BECAUSE AT THE 16 DECEMBER MEETING MIGUEL PORCELL,
NATIONAL SECRETARY OF ORGANIZATION OF THE PIE, HAD OPPOSED THE IDEA. HE DID NOT BELIEVE THAT THE PDP SHOULD ENGAGE IN SUCH ACTIVITY AND SAID THAT IF THE CUBANS WANTED THIS KIND OF INFORMATION THEY SHOULD GET IT THEMSELVES..
RUBEN SOUZA, NATIONAL SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE PDP, DISAGREED WITH PORCELL, SAYING THAT SO LONG AS THE POP COULD USE THE INFORMATION DEVELOPED BY SUCH AN OPERATION HE BELIEVED THE CUBAN PROPOSAL SHOULD BE ACCEPTED. THE SUBJECT WAS TO BE DISCUSSED FULLY AT THE CEN MEETING SCHEDULED TO BE HELD
18 DECEMBER 1962. (FIELD COMMENT: THOMAS WENT TO CUBA 14 SEPTEMBER AND RETURNED TO PANAMA, VIA ZURICH, 14 DECEMBER. TDCS 3/531,754, GIVES FURTHER DETAILS OF THOMAS' EUROPEAN TRAVEL.)

3. FIELD DISSIM: STATE, ARMY, NAVY, AIR, CINCLANT, CINCARIB.

END OF MESSAGE

ACTION: ACSI, NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD.
INFO : DCSOP
DA IN 16496


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ASD This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Titio 18, U.S.C Secs.
DASD793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET

(When Filled In)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY PERU

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/537,185

SUBJECT 1. DECISION OF GUARDIA CIVIL JUDGE TO RELEASE DATE DISTR. 14 FEBRUARY 1963

COMMUNISTS

2. COMMUNIST LEGAL ADVISER IN GUARDIA CIVIL

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES IN 67560

DATE OF INFO. 12 FEBRUARY 1963

(PLACE &
DATE ACO. PERU, LIMA (12 FEBRUARY 1963)

FIELD REPORT NO. HPL 2756

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE COMPETENT AMERICAN OBSERVER (B).

1. MAJOR GUILLERMO HINOSTROZA, WHO WAS NAMED AS THE GUARDIA CIVIL
   JUDGE TO TAKE THE STATEMENTS OF THE COMMUNISTS ACCUSED OF
   PLOTTING SUBVERSION, DECIDED ON 12 FEBRUARY 63 THAT HE COULD NOT ASSUME
   RESPONSIBILITY FOR BRINGING THE COMMUNISTS TO TRIAL. HE INTENDS TO
   RELEASE THEM ON 15 FEBRUARY IN THE ABSENCE OF A DECISION BY THE
   GOVERNING JUNTA (FIELD COMMENT: THE PRESS REPORTED HINOSTROZAS
   APPOINTMENT AS AD HOC JUDGE OR MAGISTRATE FOR THE SECOND POLICE
   JUDICIAL ZONE IN THE ARRAIGNMENT PROCESS. IT ALSO REPORTED THAT
   COLONEL ENRIQUE DIEZ CANSECO WAS THE GUARDIA CIVIL LEGAL ADVISOR
   IN THE CASE. ACCORDING TO A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE. WITH GOOD

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

DA IN 17081

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OBI OO

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

SECRET

FORM 1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 114


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN 67560
TDCS-3/537,185
PAGE 2

CONTACTS AMONG COMMUNIST PARTY LEADERS, THE PARTY IS PLEASED THAT DIEZ CANSECO IN THE CASE BECAUSE HE WAS A COMMUNIST SYMPATHIZER WHO CONTRIBUTED TO THE PARTY IN THE NINETEEN FORTIES. PARTY RECORDS FURNISHED BY THE POLICE IN 1950 SHOW ACTUALLY THAT HE WAS A PARTY MEMBER).

2. NAVY CAPTAIN ENRIQUE CARBONNEL, CHIEF OF THE SERVICIO DE INTELIGENCIA NACIONAL, PLANNED TO DISCUSS THE SITUATION WITH THE PRESIDENT OF THE JUNTA AND URGE HIM TO PREVENT THE RELEASE OF THE COMMUNISTS. JAVIER CAMPOS MONTOYA, CHIEF OF THE STATE SECURITY DIVISION OF THE POLICIA DE INVESTIGACIONES DEL PERU, INSISTS THAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS AMPLE EVIDENCE, INCLUDING SOME CONFESSIONS, ON WHICH TO CONVICT THE COMMUNISTS. CAMPOS EXPRESSED DISAPPOINTMENT AT THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE JUDGE, WHOM HE DESCRIBES AS WEAK, BUT HE HAS SOME HOPE THAT THE JUNTA WILL OVERRIDE THE DECISION.

3. FIELD DISSEM STATE ARMY NAVY AIR CINCARIB.

ACTION: ACSI, NAVY, AF, JCS, OSD

INFO : DCSOP

DA IN 17081

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 115
0000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

SECRET

Three Cuban nationals have been identified, according to a usually reliable and competent source, among the leaders of the 17 December strike violence at the US-owned Cerro de Pasco mine in La Oroya, Peru. One of the three Cubans has also been active in promoting the seizure of ranchland in the Peruvian highlands by Andean Indians. Communist-led Indians were said to have planned to synchronize a major new seizure campaign with the violence against Cerro de Pasco. No such incidents have been reported yet. (SECRET)

SECRET

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 116


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

# SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Peruvian Communist Elements Coordinating Their Activities

Orthodox Communists in Peru are apparently putting aside their differences and moving toward closer co-operation with the extremist Trotskyist faction,' believed to be leading the recent outbreak of disorders. The groups are reportedly co-ordinating previously random plans to carry out extensive destruction of industrial and agricultural installations and to provoke uprisings. Cubans and other Latin American nationals as well as Havana and Moscow-trained Peruvians are said to be instrumental in this latest development.

Members of the Peruvian junta have expressed serious concern over the internal situation and hinted that they favor strong action. Although constitutional guarantees have been suspended in a fourth department, and several Army units have been moved into the areas of disorders, the junta has taken no further action. It has requested riot control equipment from the US and says it is ready to embark on an anti-Communist program upon assurance that the equipment is forthcoming. (SECRET)

SOURCE: EMB LIMA 612 and 613 (S); AIRA LIMA C-1 (C)

4 Jan 63 DIA Intelligence Bulletin Page 8
(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 117


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

# SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Peruvian Junta Makes Firm Anti-Communist Move

Continued Communist-incited disorders and an alleged Havana-Moscow plan to take over the government prompted the military junta to suspend constitutional guarantees in Peru and institute a nationwide state of siège early on 5 January. Military commanders assumed political control in their respective zones, and a reported 800 Communist Party leaders and pro- Communist subversives have been arrested. The Lima headquarters of several Communist and Communist-front organizations, as well as their publications, have been closed.

According to the Communist plan, subversive activity was to have been intensified between 15 and 20 January in all parts of Peru, with assaults on banking and commercial institutions, military garrisons, vital communications facilities, and universities. A clandestine radio station operating on the Bolivian border allegedly was to direct and co-ordinate this activity.

The junta has regarded members of the leftist but non-Communist American Popular Revolutionary Alliance (APRA) a greater danger than the Communists and originally tended to blame them for the disorders. There is no proof that APRA has been involved in anything but legititmate strike activity. Suspension of constitutional guarantees would enable the junta to strike at APRA to discredit and weaken it before the scheduled elections next June. (SECRET)

SOURCE: EMB LIMA 622 (S), 623 (LOU) and 624 (U)

7 Jan 63 DIA Intelligence Bulletin Page 11
(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 118


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

# SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SUPPLEMENT

## THE VENEZUELAN SITUATION

A number of high-ranking Cuban leaders since the first of the year have publicly called for revolution, in other Latin American countries, with Venezuela singled out as a country with top priority.

Coinciding with these appeals have been reports that the Venezuelan Communist Party (PCV) planned to step up terrorist activity to discredit President Betancourt before his US visit. The recent incidence of terrorism, which has included attacks on the US Chamber of Commerce office building and the burning of Sears, Roebuck warehouses, is apparently part of this campaign.

Involved in the current terrorism is the Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN). The FALN, although purporting to represent all of the opposition, includes some prominent Communists and is emerging as a paramilitary force of the PCV with its main strength in the Caracas area.

Guerrilla bands also operate in western Venezuela, but there is no firm evidence that their activity is coordinated with that in the Caracas area. Venezuelan army units, with air support, have been used in a recent campaign against these guerrillas.

The armed forces are generally capable of maintaining internal security and of defending the nation's borders against neighboring countries. The vast majority supports constitutionality and is loyal to the Betancourt government. The armed forces would not hesitate, however, to take over the government in order to maintain order or to forestall a Communist uprising. The armed forces were earlier greatly frustrated over the government's inaction against Communist-instigated disorders. Betancourt's recent willingness to take more vigorous action, however, coupled with the strong support given the US during the Cuban crisis, has overcome much of this dissatisfaction, and armed forces' support of the government is greater now than it was six months ago.

The officer corps is generally free of Communist penetration, although there has been some infiltration in the Marine corps, two or three battalions having been involved in leftist-led revolts during the spring of 1962.

(SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

13 Feb 63 DIA Intelligence Bulletin Page (1)
(REVERSE BLANK)

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 120

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Extremist And Police Activities In Venezuela

Venezuela has been afflicted over the past several months with a rash of Castro-Communist terrorist actions. Many incidents, involving shootings and robberies, are connected with the Movement of the Revolutionary Left,' the Venezuelan Communist Party, and the Armed Forces of National Liberation the Castro-Communist group credited with the destruction at the Maracaibo oil fields during the Cuban crisis. These activities are probably designed to discredit and weaken the Betancourt Government.

The police have demonstrated considerable proficiency in preventing major outbreaks and in acting rapidly to arrest terrorists. They have rounded up extremists responsible for the holdup and looting of a printing supply warehouse and the burning of the Dupont paint warehouse and have captured the Communist leader of guerrilla bands operating in the Falcon area of northwestern Venezuela. (CONFIDENTIAL)
SOURCE: VARIOUS

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM
NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 120


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 121

# SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Venezuelan Communists Plan to Increase Violence

As part of its terrorist campaign, the Venezuelan Communist Party reportedly plans to mark the fourth anniversary of Betancourt's presidency on 13 February by guerrilla bombings in the Caracas area. Other Communists are to see to it that the capital is flooded with propaganda that day. According to unconfirmed reports, Venezuelan authorities have charged the Castro government with ordering the recent terrorism in both Venezuela and Colombia under an extensive plan to create collective panic and insecurity in both countries. Colombian military authorities have reportedly drawn up a plan to prevent terrorism in Colombia's cities.

(SECRET)

SOURCE: TDCS 3/537,117 (S); FBIS (U)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 122

IX.B.2

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

Leites/Mandelstan/DRAFT/14 Mar 63/frc

SUBJECT: Alternative US Public Posture on Subversion in Latin America

1. Although our public posture on subversion in Latin America may be too firmly established for instant and radical revision, the following analysis is offered on the assumption that some change in emphasis is both possible and desirable, now or at some time in the future.

2. Given the existence of a Communist state, of either major persuasion, what is the likelihood that it will engage in subversion toward neighboring states?

a. Total. All experience of the past forty years demonstrates that a Communist state emanates subversion as the sun emanates heat.

b. But let us be clear that two kinds of subversion are involved:

(1) Hardware-centered - that is, funds, guns, tools of sabotage.

(2) Egalitarian and libertarian ideals.

3. How much does this fact of inevitable subversion raise the probability of Communism spreading to target countries?

a. Subversion is never a sufficient condition - and frequently not a necessary one.

b. If subversion is really dangerous to a target state, there is per se something seriously wrong in that state. (France's "Nasser Fallacy" of 1956; France emberked on the Suez adventure on the assumption that if Nasser were disposed of, the trouble in Algeria would magically disappear. Although the game was not played out, few would dispute the conclusion that France's assumption was wrong; or, for that matter,

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 122

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 123

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

that France would have been in an even deeper moress if her military
forces had managed with the British to occupy Cairo.)

4. How feasible is it to control subversion at the source without
   destroying the Communist State?

Usually it is infeasible to do so or the costs are prohibitive.

For instance, the costs of a protracted tight quarantine which
could prevent the export both of hardware-oriented and idea subversion,
would be very high, even if the activity were accepted by Cuba and the
Soviet Union. This would mean inspecting every vessel, searching every
traveler, forcing planes down for inspection, etc. We submit (a) that
ideas would still be exported and (b) that by so doing we would magnify
the importance of Cuba beyond imagination. It would become a kind of
forbidden fruit. The analogy with prohibition in this country comes to
mind. This course involves an increment of prestige and lure to Cuba
which would be likely to outweigh the doubtless desirable diminution in
the export of trained subversives and associated hardware. Furthermore,
given the success of such an effort, the obvious Soviet counter would be
to use other channels which we could not surveil without major East-
West confrontation. The Cuban subversion export organization might well
move to Moscow, Prague and/or even Peiping. Therefore, to take a public
stance opposed to Cuban subversion without having resolved on invasion
is to be committed to a policy bound to demonstrate US impotence.

5. If we want to control subversion at the source by destroying
   the Communist State, Cuba, how useful is it for us publicly to emphasize
   hardware-centered subversion as the reason?

2

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

NW 50955 DocId:32423736 Page 123


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 124

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

a. For many people outside of the US, even the export of subversion by force and sabotage also involves ideas and dedication, as well as funds, arms, and other equipment. (We, for example, are not ashamed of the Bay of Pigs expedition except that it failed.)

b. Usually attitudes toward violent subversion depend on attitudes toward the target. (Example: acts against Jiminez, Trujillo did not offend US/ most of Latin America/ most of the world; the parallel today: Somoza, Ydigoras, Stroesser). We run the danger of falling into the USSR projection of the US as the "world gendarme." Subversion directed against the Dutch government would outrage not only all Americans, but also all non-Communist Europeans; its legitimacy is total. But the same can not be said for most LA governments. The difference is decisive and perhaps sometimes neglected.

c. Most people generally recognize that when violent subversion is powerful, it is because it taps fundamental sources of discontent.

d. We in the US tend to look at subversion in Latin America from the point-of-view of hardware. But a great deal of the subversion in Latin America is or at least appears as idea-centered, not hardware-centered. The export of "armed aggression" by dedicated revolutionaries is only a part of the process. Another part, which is at least as important, and probably more so, is the export of propaganda. This, however, to much of the world, including Latin America outside of the oligarchies, will appear as an export of ideas and ideals (perhaps wrong, but nevertheless ideas). Our approach, then, tends to pass rather than meet the

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 125

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

Latino viewpoints. We are very close to putting ourselves into the position of the Tsarist gendarmes who tried to use brute force against the power of ideas. The trap is that we may seem thereby to be acknowledging the decline and imminent fall of our *own* ideas.

e. One consequence of this line of reasoning would be that, if we ever find it necessary to invade Cuba, we should do so "to stop the firing squads," "to guarantee free elections," -- but not to save Somoza.

6. How feasible is it for us to control both kinds of subversion at the target rather then at the source?

a. It is often feasible. This is how we have in fact successfully controlled subversion except in the dubious case of S. Vietnam. Even in the difficult case of Greece, we succeeded by a combination of military and economic measures.

b. The point is not that this is always a feasible way of handling the problem; rather it is often practicable and also often the most desirable way.

7. Suppose that we decided to invade Cuba to control subversion with the result (three cases):

a. That we restored the *status quo ante* Castro.

b. That for reasons of expediency we try to maintain Castro's "reforms" -- i.e., what many Latinces would regard as "socialism."

c. That we gave the Cuban people an obvious free choice, no matter what ensued.

How would the prospects for Commanism in the Western Hemisphere be affected?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 126

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

Case A: Boomerang - we would almost certainly enhance the prospects for Communism.

Case B: There would be strong popular Latin American support, some governmental outrage, but the prospects for Communism would be diminished.

Case C: Paradoxically, the result would depend on what ensued, because most Latin Americans do not trust the US (and particularly would be skeptical of "free elections" if US soldiers were present).

CONCLUSIONS

1. Conditions in most parts of Latin America are such that subversion (Cuban or Bloc or both) is really dangerous.

2. Since this is so, the US public posture should *not* recognize this; and we should abstain from public pronouncements that subversion is conceivably a *casus belli*.

3. The point-of-view set forth in this paper, insofar as it can be made operative, may tend to bring a fundamental alignment between the US public posture and LA opinion.

4. The US course of action towards any LA country has to weigh the advantages and disadvantages, in any given case at any given time, of subversion control (a) at source or (b) at point of impact.

5. The same principles would apply if another Communist-oriented government were to come to power in any part of Latin America.

5

TOP SECRET - SENSITIVE

NW 50955 DocId: 32423736 Page 126


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)