202-10001-10219 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date : 08/04/98
Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : JCS
RECORD NUMBER : 202-10001-10219
RECORDS SERIES : FOIA SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: DOC 220

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : OSD
FROM :
TO:
TITLE : OPERATION MONGOOSE PROGRESS
DATE : 05/31/62
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Reviewed by OSD, CIA, State.

![no joint staff objection to declassification requires concurrence of CIA]

DATE: MAR 2016

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId: 32424950 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SENSITIVE

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

31 May 1962

MEMORANDUM: FOR THE SPECIAL GROUP (AUCHENTEL)

From: Brig. Gen. Lansdale

Subject: Operation Mongoose Progress

Intelligence build-up by CIA includes efforts to recruit a Cuban diplomat in-place and an official in an airlines office in Havana. The CIA team placed in Pinar del Rio Province last March was successfully re-supplied by maritime means on 24 May. The Navy and CIA have worked out a cooperative effort to strengthen the U.S. security and intelligence program at Guantanamo.

The CAC continues to provide word from inside Cuba covering local security moves and popular unrest (unrest reportedly increasing). A substantial reduction in oil refining and manufacture of tires and tubes is reported from CAC sources.

Economic pressure upon the Communist regime may be increased by a Department of Commerce move denying bunkering facilities at U.S. ports to vessels under Sino-Soviet bloc charter carrying cargo to Cuba. State Department reports having solicited views of our Ambassador to Japan regarding possible approaches to the Japanese asking them to cease sugar purchases from Cuba.

Propaganda efforts of USIA and CIA continue to apply pressure upon the Cuban regime by focusing upon abuses of power and failure of key programs such as medical and food. The VOA use of refugees in interviews especially underlined this theme. I am looking into a USIA proposal that we counter Communist Cuba moves to impress Latin America by participation in the athletic North Central American and Caribbean Games set for August 11-21 in Kingston, Jamaica: a "free Cuba" team might be effective, with good publicity support.

> [Figure: A stamp indicates "CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT AS SANITIZED". There are also redaction markings and additional stamps related to document handling.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Incident at Guantanamo occurred 26 May when a light Cuban
aircrait lanced there. Three Cubans had forcee the pilot, at
pistol point, to land then at our Naval Ease. With State'a con-
currence, Lefense acted: the Cupan pilot flew home, the 3 Cuban
cecapoes stayed on the base.

Fracturing the Ferime has been given priority attention by
CIA. A senior case cuicer has been assigned full-time to this
specific action, and has preferential use of CIA assets.
desirable delection targets, CLA has found several who seem
vulnerable (inclucing the Minister of National Leonomy, Leon Boti)

Priority Operations Schedule of 21' ay, seeking some positive
actions in beralf of our project curing the nest several weeks, nas
brougat a very healthy response from CIA and UGIA. The CIA
determination to meet the challenge has suríaced four policy-type
questions which I note for you on behalf of CIA:

1. Task 7, "Voice of Free Cuba," is almost immediatcly
   Teasicle, if the Group will approve CIA arranging with
   Navy for use of a submarine. CIA has fire plans for
   worrying the Communist regime through broadcasts
   which would appear to come from local dissident groups
   actively planning to harass the regime.

2. Task 19, CIA is prepared to disseminate leaflets on Castro's
   failure to the Cuban population via balloon with a view of
   increasing instability of the Communist hachine. The
   technique is tested and CIA has plans to operate iron a
   surface chip in international waters. The Croup ic
   asked to approve the idea, including Navy support. This
   coulu be operating in time to exploit the 26 July anniversary
   of Castro's attack upon government forces ut Santiago de
   Cuba in 1953, for the revolution' he has now betrayco.

3. Task 19. CIA believes it can recruit some 20-an teams
   for possible use in beeting up resistance groups within Cuba.
   Croup approval is asked for Iefense support in training,
   holding, logistics. The noise level' hazard is notce, but
   this special project could be ai nost unnoticed if t! med with
   proposed U.S. military enlistment of Cubans.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

4) Tack 23, Counterfeit Currency to increase Cuban economic
   problems is concicered feasible within 30-60 days upon a
   limited basis and in considerable scale within six months.
   CIA asks the Group approval before proceecing with this
   action.

Other Tasks.

I note here that CIA does not feel it has the operational means
to undertake Task No.22, black-market activities of this time. Fur-
ther that Task No. 11, Time magazine dissemination, would require
operational facilities not now available. I accept indefinite deferral of
Task No. 22 and scrubbing of Task No. 11 on this basis.

The Lepartment of State reaction, to my effort to get the U.S..
into priority actions towards our project's goals, has been cisappointing
to me thus far. Apparently, my ecnecule of targets for special elforts
is accepted only as it may fit into long-range, existing programs already
under way. If this is the theory of our project, I believe that the project
then becomes only a special reporting device and not a special U.S.
effort to win the goal of helping the Cusans recapture their country
from a gang of Communists.

"Eyes Only" copies to:

1. Ceneral Taylor
2. Mr. Johnson
3. Mr. Cilpatric
4. r. McCone
5. Mr. Kennedy
6. Ceneral Lemnitzer
7. Chief of Operations


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)