202-10001-10187 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 08/28/98
Page: 1

# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : JCS
RECORD NUMBER : 202-10001-10187
RECORDS SERIES : FOIA SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : DOC 188

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : OSD
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE SPECIAL GROUP ON MONGOOSE 6
DATE : 09/06/62
PAGES : 5
SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE
DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Reviewed by JCS, OSD, CIA and State.

![NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION REQUIRES CONCURRENCE OF CIA DATE: MAR 2016]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId: 32424918 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

- 3 -

f. General Carter pointed out that reference to support of all Cuban exile groups (number 48) is impractical. The word was changed to *selected*.

g. Mr. Martin cautioned that results of number 50 (actions to be undertaken by other Hemisphere governments) would not be expected overnight.

General Carter urged that, in connection with number 22[^1] (submarine broadcasts) General Lansdale should be given more latitude in working up other *deception possibilities*. Mr. Bundy felt, on the other hand, that particularly because of the possible Cuban counter-measures which had been outlined by Mr. Murrow, the Group should look at other possibilities in some detail.

i. General Carter felt that a determination should be made as to how far the U.S. is prepared to go in economic harrassing actions. He emphasized that sabotage operations such as those under number 27 will not in themselves be especially effective in wrecking the Cuban economy.

> [Figure: Handwriting] State deposits 6(1)(C)

The Group then turned to a discussion of number 32 (agricultural sabotage). General Carter emphasized the extreme sensitivity of any such operation and the disastrous results that would flow from something going wrong, particularly if there were obvious attribution to the U.S. He went on to say, however, that it would be possible to accomplish this purpose by methods more subtle than those indicated in the paper. He mentioned specifically the possibility of producing crop

[^1]: 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

failures by the introduction of biological agents which would appear to be of natural origin. Mr. Bundy said that he had no worries about any such sabotage which could clearly be made to appear as the result of local Cuban disaffection or of a natural disaster, but that we must avoid external activities such as release of chemicals, etc., unless they could be completely covered up.

5. A suggestion was made that small explosives or incendiaries which could be distributed to Cubans should be infiltrated. General Carter explained that the problem is not one of such supplies, since they can be easily improvised, but rather that the people have shown no inclinat: to use such materials despite many exile claims to the contrary.

6. It was suggested that the matter of attacking and harrassing of Soviet personnel within Cuba should be considered.

7. The Attorney General and Mr. Bundy said that no reprisals against exiles who undertake active operations on their own are contemplated.

8. It was suggested that the possibilities of counterfeiting be looke into further.

9. General Carter urged again that a decision be reached as to how much latitude would be allowed the operating elements of the government within broad policy lines. The Chairman indicated that it would not be a simple matter to delegate responsibilities of this kind to any great degree.

10. Mr. Bundy then raised the basic question of the entire spectrum


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

-3-

f. General Carter pointed out that reference to support of all Cuban exile groups (number 48) is impractical. The word was changed to *selected*.

g. Mr. Martin cautioned that results of number 50 (actions to be undertaken by other Hemisphere governments) would not be expected overnight.

General Carter urged that, in connection with[^1] General Lansdale should be given more latitude in working up other deception possibilities Mr. Bundy felt, on the other hand, that particularly because of the possible Cuban counter-measures which had been outlined by Mr. Murrow, the Group should look at other possibilities in some detail.

i. General Carter felt that a determination should be made as to how far the U.S. is prepared to go in economic harrassing actions. He emphasized that sabotage operations such as those under number 27 will not in themselves be especially effective in wrecking the Cuban economy.

PERTINENT BACKGROUND

The Group then turned to a discussion of number 32.

General Carter emphasized the extreme sensitivity of any such operation and the disastrous results that would flow from some- thing going wrong, particularly if there were obvious attribution to the U.S. He went on to say, however, that it would be possible to accomplish this purpose by methods more subtle than those indicated in the paper. He mentioned specifically the possibility of

[^1]: [Figure: Handwritten annotations with lines crossing out text.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Mr. Bundy said that he had no worries about any such sabotage which could clearly be made to appear as the result of local Cuban disaffection or off but that we must avoid external activities such as

-5. A suggestion was made that small explosives or incendiaries which could be distributed to Cubans should be infiltrated. General Carter explained that the problem is not one of such supplies, since they can be easily improvised, but rather that the people have shown no inclinatic to use such materials despite many exile claims to the contrary.

It was suggested that the matter of attacking and harrassing of Soviet personnel within Cuba should be considered

7. The Attorney General and Mr. Bundy said that no reprisals against exiles who undertake active operations on their own are contemplated.

8. It was suggested that the possibilities of counterfeiting be looked into further.

9. General Carter urged again that a decision be reached as to how much latitude would be allowed the operating elements of the government, within broad policy lines. The Chairman indicated that it would not be a simple matter to delegate responsibilities of this kind to any great degree.

10. Mr. Bundy them raised the basic question of the entire spectrum


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)