202-10001-10203 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date : 08/04/98
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : JCS
RECORD NUMBER : 202-10001-10203
RECORDS SERIES : FOIA SERIES
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: DOC 204

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: OSD
FROM :
TO :
TITLE : THE CUBA PROJECT
DATE : 01/24/62
PAGES : 6
SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM
CLASSIFICATION: TOP SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/98
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : Reviewed by OSD, CIA and State.

![NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION REQUIRES CONCURRENCE OF CIA]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50955 DocId:32424934 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY

SUBJECT: Tasks Assigned to CIA in General Lansdale's Program
Review

A. TASKS

Part V, pp. 5-8, of General Lansdale's program review of the Cuba Project, dated 18 January 1962, assigns 32 specific tasks to elements of the U.S. Government. Of these, 16 are assigned to CIA solely or jointly. The tasks have been reviewed by this Agency, and it has been determined that substantially all reporting and planning deadlines can be met. Work on all tasks, with and without assigned dates for completion, is in progress. The following detailed observations are keyed to General Lansdale's paper.

1.  Task 1, p. 5. The intelligence community is hard at work on NIE 85-62 and is attempting to meet the deadline of 7 February. As was agreed in a conversation of 23 January 1962 with General Lansdale, a short extension may be necessary.

2.  Task 2, p.5. The Opa-Locka Interrogation Center in Florida will be in operation on 15 February -- the deadline date.

3.  Task 3. p.5 The survey is in progress and will be completed on the stipulated date. On the basis of the information


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY

obtained the possibility of establishing additional interrogation
points will be determined.

4. Task 4, p. 5. An operational assessment of the stay-
   behind net in Cuba will be completed and reported by the deadline
   of 15 February. Because communication with singleton agents is
   by SW, not W/T, it is unlikely that assessment can be completed
   by the date stipulated; an extension to 28 February may be
   necessary, although every effort is being made to complete the work
   before that dat An intensive program aimed at the acquisition
   of third country assets through the cooperation of liaison services
   is also under way, particularly in Spain, Belgium, France,
   Uruguay, and Costa Rica. A progress report on the status of
   this program will be made by 15 February, although this Agency
   cannot be sure that the cooperation of all intended participants will
   have been obtained by that date. CIA has also taken the follow-
   ing additional steps in respect to Task 4.

a. A cable has been sent to field stations to give added
impetus to the search for assets and the development of both
unilateral and joint operations. Progress reports have been
required by 1 March.

b. A survey of the Cuban Chinese community and of

-2-
S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY

operational access to it is under way. Target date: end of
February.

c. An assessment of more than one hundred persons to
determine their suitability for return to Cuba as agents in
the guise of students is also being conducted. Target date:
end of February.

5. Task 5, p.5. The 1 February deadline will be met, and
   by that date we shall also have begun the search for suitable inter-
   mediaries. Analysis to date has not uncovered a top-level official
   of the Cuban regime whose personal characteristics indicate he
   would accept recruitment or agree to defection now. Although
   some targets of opportunity will appear outside Cuba, most planning
   will necessarily be based upon an appeal made inside the island by
   intermediaries selected from the ranks of journalists, foreign
   officials, international businessmen, foreign lawyers, crime
   syndicates, international detectives and foreign police officials.
   Additionally, plans for the defection of lower-level Cuban officials
   abroad have been completed, and the search for targets and access
   abroad is under way.

6. Task 6, p. 5. By the assigned date we shall complete
   and submit a coordinated plan. We shall also have begun action on

-3-
S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY

cover and deception operations by that date.

7. Task 7, p. 5. By 1 February CIA will submit an operational schedule for the initiation of an organized resistance movement inside Cuba. The schedule will include the localities selected and the assessment of some candidates. A full assessment will be completed in accordance with the schedule listed in para. 4, above, in conformance with Task 4. It should be noted, however, that this operational schedule (like the schedules called for in Tasks 10, 26, and 30) will necessarily be tentative and subject to later revision as the number of assets inside Cuba increases and as the flow of intelligence is augmented. Moreover, the development of a resistance movement will not remain controllable, so that operational timetables produced during the next four weeks can serve only as guides for a proposed sequence of actions.

8. Task 10, p. 5. CIA has on hand both propaganda and political action assets in the Caribbean area and elsewhere in Latin America. It is planned to use those assets both to support the Project inside Cuba and to generate and mobilize public and official opinion against Castro outside Cuba. The operational schedule will be submitted on the stated date.

9. Task 18, p. 6. Discussions with the appropriate AFL-CIO!

-4-
S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY

officials have been donducted and a feport of developments will be submitted by 15 February.

10. Task 21, p. 7. Plans for inducing the failure of crops will be submitted by 15 February. These plans will envisage both the use of controlled assets who can be infiltrated and exfiltrated and the provision of encouragement and guidance to the resistance, so that it will undertake acts of sabotage, some of which are to be directed against crops, particularly rice.

11 Task 24, p. 7. This deadline will also be met. Primary methods of disrupting the supply of Cuban nickel to the USSR could, if approved, include (1) the sinking of Cuban or Bloc ships by open attack; (2) the use of "frogman" or UDT tactics in harbors for the same purpose; (3) the employment of torpedos and mines toward this end; and (4) the sabotaging of primary or secondary sources of Cuban nickel, such as the Nicaro and Moa plants. CIA now has no proven internal assets capable of carrying out any of these actions. The Agency does have external assets capable of undertaking actions (2) and (3). It also has an external group capable of undertaking (4) upon the completion of specialized training All studies, including a plan for using overt or covert means to prevent re- institution of the Canadian supply to the USSR, will be submitted by 15 February. It is suggested that consideration be given to

-5-
S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY

assigning to the economic action group, chaired by the Department
of State, responsibility for overt action designed to deny Canadian
nickel to the USSR.

12. Task 26, p. 7. Together with Tasks 27 and 28, Task 26
    constitutes an outline of a plan for a psychological warfare operation.
    These tasks are so closely interrelated that CIA proposes to submit
    by 15 February a single plan dealing with all three tasks.

13. Task 27, p.7. See preceding paragraph.

14. Task 28, p. 7. See paragraph 12.

15. Task 30, p. 7. By 15 February CIA will submit an opera-
    tional schedule dealing with the sabotage of (1) shipping in Cuban
    waters and harbors, (2) Cuban transport facilities, (3) communications
    facilities, (4) equipment for the refining of petroleum, (5) facili-
    ties for producing and distributing power, (6) industry, (7) food
    supplies, (8) key military and police installations and materiel.
    The schedule will also include the disruption of military and police
    communications and harassment of military and police training and
    personnel.

16. Task 31, p. 8. This deadline will be met.

B. ADDITIONAL UNDERTAKINGS

The following comments are keyed to Sections D through K.
Part IV (pp. 3 and 4) of the program review.

-6-
S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY

17. Section D. p. 3. Six men, to form the initial nucleus, have been assessed in depth. Further assessment of candidates inside and outside Cuba is in progress, and it is expected that ten of these will be recruited by February.

18. Section E, p. 3 To date fifteen locations have been selected as suitable center of resistance because of (1) the presence there of groups among which there is patent or incipient unrest, (2) the presence of strategic and tactical targets for use or deactivation, and (3) proximity to potential unconventional warfare areas. In order of priority, the fifteen centers are Havana, Camaguey, Santa Clara, Cienfuegos, Matanzas, Cardenas, Sancti Spiritus, the Escambray Mountains, Holguin, Siantago de Cuba, Ciego de Avila, Baracoa, Pinar del Rio, Manzanillo, and Colon

19 Section F. p. 3. In support of State's efforts CIA has conducted propaganda operations, including a number of mass demonstrations in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guaternala, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela.

20 Section H. p One TV intrusion operation has been conducted, on 16 January. Plans for an intrusion during the scheduled parade and demonstration in Havana are being formulated

-7-
S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY

21. Section K, p. 4 Groups with which CIA has exploitable access or entree includ wonen, labor, students, teachers, jurists, and other professional classes. International contacts with labor organizations and members of the Catholic Church will also be utilized.

NW 50955 DocId: 32424934 Page 9

-8-
S-E-C-R-E-T
EYES ONLY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)